- None of the books in my father's [dusty old bookcase] were forbidden. Yet while I was growing up, I never saw anyone [take one down]. Most were [massive tomes] —a comprehensive history of civilization, matching volumes of the great works of [[western literature]], numerous others I can no longer recall —that seemed [almost fused to shelves] that [bowed slightly] 微微弯曲 from decades of [steadfast support]. But way up on the highest shelf was [a thin little text] that, every now and then, would [catch my eye] because it [seemed so out of place], like Gulliver among the Brobdingnagians. In hindsight, [I'm not quite sure] why I [waited so long] before [taking a look]. Perhaps, as the years went by, the books seemed less like [material you read] and more like [family heirlooms] 传家宝 you [admire from afar]. Ultimately, such reverence [gave way to teenage brashness]. 让位于青少年的鲁莽 I reached up for the little text, dusted it off, and opened to page one. The first few lines were, to say the least, startling.
    - My [chance encounter] with Camus' book must have occurred during [an especially impressionable phase] because, more than anything else I'd read, his words [stayed with me]. [Time and again] I'd imagine how various people I'd met, or heard about, or [had seen on television] would [answer this primary of all questions]. In retrospect, though, 回想起来 it was his second assertion—regarding the role of [[scientific progress]] —that, for me, proved particularly challenging. Camus acknowledged value in understanding [the structure of the universe], but as far as I could tell, he [rejected the possibility that] such understanding could [make any difference to] our [assessment of life's worth]. Now, certainly, my [teenage reading] of [[existential philosophy]] was about as sophisticated as Bart Simpson's reading of [[Romantic poetry]], but even so, Camus' conclusion struck me as off the mark. 给我留下了深刻的印象 To this aspiring physicist, 抱负, 志气 it seemed that [an informed appraisal of life] 知情评估 absolutely [required a full understanding of] [life's arena] —the universe. 
        - [I remember thinking that] if our species dwelled in [cavernous outcroppings] 出露地表, 矿苗 [buried deep underground] and so had yet to [discover the earth's surface], brilliant sunlight, an ocean breeze, and the stars that lie beyond, or if evolution had [proceeded along a different pathway] and we had yet to acquire any but [the sense of touch], so [everything we knew] came only from our [tactile impressions](((bhJr1gK90))) 触觉印象 of our [immediate environment], or if human mental faculties [stopped developing during early childhood] so our [emotional and analytical skills] [never progressed beyond] those of a five-year-old —in short, ^^如果我们的一切经历都只能是对真正实在的微不足道的描绘 if our experiences painted but [a paltry portrait of reality]—[our appraisal of life] [would be thoroughly compromised].^^ When we finally [found our way to] [earth's surface], or when we finally [gained the ability to] see, hear, smell, and taste, or when our minds were finally freed to develop [as they ordinarily do], our [[collective view]] of life and the cosmos would, of necessity, change radically. Our previously [compromised grasp of reality] would have [shed a very different light on] that [most fundamental of] all [philosophical questions].
        - But, you might ask, what of it? Surely, any [[sober assessment]] would conclude that although we might not [understand everything about the universe] — every aspect of [how matter behaves] or [life functions] —we are privy to the defining, broad-brush strokes gracing nature's canvas. Surely, as Camus intimated, progress in physics, such as understanding the number of [[space dimension]]s; or progress in [[neuropsychology]], such as understanding all the [[organizational structure]]s in the brain; or, for that matter, progress in any number of other [scientific undertakings] may [fill in important details], but their impact on our [evaluation of life] and reality would be minimal. Surely, reality is what we think it is; reality is [revealed to us by our experiences].
        - To one extent or another, this [view of reality] is one many of us hold, if only implicitly. I certainly find myself [thinking this way] [in day-to-day life](((iyx40cLCP))); [it's easy to be seduced by] 所诱惑 the face nature reveals directly to our senses. Yet, in the decades [since first encountering] Camus' text, I've learned that [modern science] [tells a very different story]. The [overarching lesson] that has emerged from [[scientific inquiry]] [over the last century] is that [[human experience]] is often [a misleading guide to] [the true nature of reality](((4p5xu9TI0))). Lying just beneath [the surface of the everyday] is [a world we'd hardly recognize]. Followers of the [[occult]], devotees of [[astrology]], 虔诚的宗教信徒 and those who hold to [religious principles] that speak to [a reality beyond experience] have, from widely varying perspectives, long since arrived at a similar conclusion. But that's not what I have in mind. I'm [referring to the work of] [ingenious innovators] and [tireless researchers] —the men and women of science—who have peeled back layer after layer of the cosmic onion, 剥开 enigma by enigma, 一个接一个的谜 and [revealed a universe] that is at once surprising, unfamiliar, exciting, elegant, and thoroughly unlike what [anyone ever expected].
            - These developments are anything but details. [Breakthroughs in physics] have forced, and continue to force, [dramatic revisions to] [our conception of the cosmos]. [I remain as convinced now as I did decades ago](((1NclXFUpQ))) 我现在仍然像几十年前一样坚信 that Camus rightly chose [life's value]([[life value]]) as the [[ultimate question]], but [the insights of modern physics] [have persuaded me that] [assessing life] [through the lens of everyday experience](((SNT2aWXhI))) is like [gazing at a van Gogh] [through an empty Coke bottle]. [Modern science] has [spearheaded one assault after another] on 率先发起了一次又一次的攻击 [evidence gathered from] our [rudimentary perceptions], 初步认识 showing that they often [yield a clouded conception] of [the world we inhabit]. 模糊的观念 
                - And so whereas Camus [separated out physical questions] and [labeled them secondary], I've [become convinced that] they're primary. For me, [[physical reality]] both sets the arena and [provides the illumination for] [grappling with Camus' question]. 抓住, 扭打 [Assessing existence] while failing to [embrace the insights of] [[modern physics]] would be like wrestling in the dark [with an unknown opponent]. 与一个未知的对手摔跤 By [deepening our understanding of] [the true nature of physical reality], we profoundly [reconfigure our sense of ourselves] and [our experience of the universe].
(有关于世界的实在和人生的价值-在这里，物理学问题是第一位的而不是次要的)
210402-19:45
            - The [central concern] of this book is to explain some of [the most prominent and pivotal of these revisions] 枢轴 to our [picture of reality], [with an intense focus on] those that affect our species' [long-term project](((6h4yMRsHy))) to [understand space and time]. From Aristotle to Einstein, from the [[astrolabe]] to the [[Hubble Space Telescope]], from the pyramids to [mountaintop observatories], space and time have [framed thinking] [since thinking began]. [With the advent of] the [modern scientific age], their importance [has been tremendously heightened]. Over the last three centuries, [developments in physics] have revealed space and time as [the most baffling and most compelling concepts], and as those most instrumental 最重要的工具 in our [scientific analysis] of the universe. Such developments have also shown that space and time [top the list of] age-old [scientific constructs] that are [being fantastically revised by] [[cutting-edge research]].
210402-22:05
- To Isaac Newton, space and time simply were —they formed an inert, universal [cosmic stage] 惰性的 on which [the events of the universe] played themselves out. To his contemporary and frequent rival 竞争对手 [[Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz]], "space" and "time" were merely [the vocabulary of relations between] where objects were and [when events took place]. Nothing more. But to Albert Einstein, space and time were the [[raw material]] underlying reality. 现实背后的原材料 Through his [theories of relativity], Einstein [jolted our thinking about space and time] and [revealed the principal part] they play in [the evolution of the universe]. Ever since, space and time have been the [sparkling jewels] of physics. They are at once familiar and mystifying; [fully understanding] space and time has become physics' [most daunting challenge] and [sought-after prize].
210402-22:19
    - The developments we'll [cover in this book] [interweave the fabric of] space and time [in various ways]. Some ideas will challenge features of space and time so basic that for centuries, if not millennia, they've [seemed beyond questioning]. Others will [seek the link between] our [theoretical understanding] of space and time and [the traits we commonly experience]. Yet others will [raise questions] unfathomable [within the limited confines of] [ordinary perceptions]. 在普通认知的有限范围内
    - We will speak only minimally of philosophy (and not at all about suicide and [the meaning of life]). But in our [scientific quest] to [solve the mysteries of] space and time, we will be resolutely unrestrained. 坚决不受约束 From the universe's [smallest speck] and [earliest moments] [to its farthest reaches] and [most distant future], we will examine space and time in environments familiar and far-flung, [with an unflinching eye] [seeking their true nature]. As the story of space and time [has yet to be fully written], we won't [arrive at any final assessments]. But we will encounter [a series of developments] — some intensely strange, some deeply satisfying, some experimentally verified, some [thoroughly speculative] —that will show how close we've come to wrapping our minds around the fabric of the cosmos and [touching the true texture of reality].
210403-00:27
- ## Classical Reality
    - Historians differ on exactly when the [modern scientific age] began, but certainly by the time Galileo Galilei, Rene Descartes, and Isaac Newton had had their say, it was briskly under way. In those days, the [new scientific mind-set] [was being steadily forged], 正在稳步形成 as patterns found in [terrestrial and astronomical data] [made it increasingly clear that] there is an order to [all the comings and goings of the cosmos], an order accessible to [careful reasoning] and [mathematical analysis]. These [early pioneers] of [modem scientific thought] argued that, when [looked at the right way], [the happenings in the universe] not only are [explicable](((ksD5xjEdc))) but predictable. 不仅是可解释的 The power of science to foretell aspects of the future —[consistently](((Zzng80XEW))) and quantitatively—had been revealed.
(宇宙的秩序-可解释+可预测)
210403-00:36
        - Early [scientific study] [focused on the kinds of things] [one might see or experience in everyday life]. Galileo [dropped weights] from a [leaning tower](((QlWTb24Yo))) (or so legend has it) and watched balls rolling down [[inclined surface]]s; Newton studied [falling apples](((PZHeWTzQO))) (or so legend has it) and [the orbit of the moon](((FWNeZUhFn))). [The goal of these investigations] was to attune [the nascent scientific ear] 新生的 to [nature's harmonies]. 相协调 To be sure, physical reality was [the stuff of experience], but the challenge was to [hear the rhyme] and [reason behind the rhythm and regularity]. Many sung and unsung heroes contributed to the rapid and [impressive progress] that was made, but Newton [stole the show]. 抢了风头 With a handful of [mathematical equations], he synthesized [everything known about] [motion on earth and in the heavens], and in so doing, [composed the score] for what has come to be known as [[classical physics]]. 
            - In the decades following Newton's work, his equations were developed into [an elaborate mathematical structure] that significantly [extended both their reach and] their [[practical utility]]. Classical physics gradually became a sophisticated and mature [[scientific discipline]]. But shining clearly through all these advances was the beacon of Newton's [original insights]. Even today, more than three hundred years later, you can see [Newton's equations] [scrawled on introductory-physics chalkboards] worldwide, 潦草的笔迹 printed on [NASA flight plans] computing [spacecraft trajectories]([[spacecraft trajectory]]), and embedded within the [complex calculations] of [forefront research].
        - But while [formulating his laws of motion], Newton encountered a critical [stumbling block], one that is of [particular importance] to our story (Chapter 2). Everyone knew that [things could move], but what about the arena [within which the motion took place]? Well, that's space, we'd all answer. But, Newton would reply, what is space? Is space [a real physical entity] or is it [an abstract idea] born of the human struggle to [comprehend the cosmos](((Dl51YOL2m)))? Newton realized that this [key question] had to be answered, because without [taking a stand on] the meaning of space and time, his [equations describing motion] [would prove meaningless]. __Understanding requires context; insight must be anchored. 理解需要语境，洞见必须锚定。__
            - And so, with [a few brief sentences] in his [[Principia Mathematica]], Newton [articulated a conception of] space and time, declaring them [absolute and immutable entities] that [provided the universe with] a rigid, unchangeable arena. According to Newton, space and time supplied [an invisible scaffolding] that [gave the universe shape and structure]. Not everyone agreed. Some [argued persuasively that] [it made little sense to] [ascribe existence to something you can't feel], grasp, or affect. But [the explanatory and predictive power] of [Newton's equations] [quieted the critics]. For the next two hundred years, his [absolute conception of space and time](((9hogHYGsu))) was dogma. 教条
(时空搭建出宇宙的形状与结构-绝对时空观)
210403-07:00
- ## Relativistic Reality
    - The classical [Newtonian worldview](((V10DAbgf_))) was pleasing. Not only did it describe [natural phenomena] [with striking accuracy], but [the details of the description]—the mathematics —aligned tightly with experience. 紧密结合 If you push something, it speeds up. The harder you [throw a ball], the more impact it has when it [smacks into a wall]. If you [press against something], you feel it [pressing back against you]. The more massive something is, the stronger its gravitational pull. These are among the most [basic properties] of the [natural world], and when you learn [Newton's framework], you see them represented in his equations, clear as day. Unlike a [crystal ball](((tdpYT9PQ_)))'s [inscrutable hocus-pocus], 难以捉摸的骗术 the workings of [Newton's laws] were on display for all with minimal [mathematical training] to take in fully. Classical physics [provided a rigorous grounding for] [[human intuition]]. p20
210403-07:10
(经典力学同人类的常识与直觉极其相符)
    - Newton had included [the force of gravity] in his equations, but it was not until the 1860s that the [Scottish scientist] [[James Clerk Maxwell]] [extended the framework of] classical physics to [take account of] [electrical and magnetic forces]. Maxwell needed [additional equations] to do so and [the mathematics he employed] [required a higher level of training to grasp fully]. But his new equations were every bit as successful at explaining [electrical and magnetic phenomena] as Newton's were at [describing motion]. By the late 1800s, it was evident that [the universe's secrets] were proving no match for the power of [[human intellectual]] might.
        - Indeed, with the successful [incorporation of electricity and magnetism], [there was a growing sense that] [[theoretical physics]] [would soon be complete]. Physics, some suggested, was rapidly becoming [a finished subject] and its laws would shortly [be chiseled in stone]. 凿刻在石头上 In 1894, the renowned [[experimental physicist]] [[Albert Michelson]] remarked that "most of the [grand underlying principles] [have been firmly established]" and he quoted an "eminent scientist" —most believe it was the British physicist [[Lord Kelvin]] —as saying that [all that remained] were details of [determining some numbers] to [a greater number of decimal places].[1]() In 1900, Kelvin himself did note that "two clouds" were [hovering on the horizon](((GcGH-LgPD))), one to do with [properties of light's motion] and the other with aspects of [the radiation objects emit] when heated/ but there was [a general feeling that] these were mere details, which, no doubt, would soon be addressed.
210403-07:25
        - Within a decade, everything changed. [As anticipated](((GXq8sRUQJ))), the two problems Kelvin had raised were [promptly addressed], but they proved anything but minor. Each [ignited a revolution], and each required [a fundamental rewriting of] [nature's laws]. The [classical conceptions] of space, time, and reality—the ones that for hundreds of years had not only worked but also [concisely expressed] our [[intuitive sense]] of the world — were overthrown.
210403-07:31
            - The relativity revolution, which addressed the first of Kelvin's "clouds," dates from 1905 and 1915, when Albert Einstein completed his [special and general theories of relativity] (Chapter 3). While [struggling with puzzles] involving electricity, magnetism, and light's motion, Einstein realized that [Newton's conception of space and time], the corner-stone of classical physics, was flawed. [Over the course of] [a few intense weeks] in the spring of 1905, 度过了紧张的几周 he determined that space and time are not independent and absolute, as Newton had thought, but are enmeshed and relative in a manner that flies in the face of common experience. Some ten years later, Einstein hammered a final nail in the Newtonian coffin by rewriting the laws of gravitational physics. This time, not only did Einstein show that space and time are part of a unified whole, he also showed that by warping and curving they participate in cosmic evolution. Far from being the rigid, unchanging structures envisioned by Newton, space and time in Einstein's reworking are flexible and dynamic.
    - The two theories of relativity are among humankind's most precious achievements, and with them Einstein toppled Newton's conception of reality. Even though Newtonian physics seemed to capture mathematically much of what we experience physically, the reality it describes turns out not to be the reality of our world. Ours is a relativistic reality. Yet, because the deviation between classical and relativistic reality is manifest only under extreme conditions (such as extremes of speed and gravity'), Newtonian physics still provides an approximation that proves extremely accurate and useful in many circumstances. But utility and reality' are very different standards. As we will see, features of space and time that for many of us are second nature have turned out to be figments of a false Newtonian perspective.
