- But what exactly is this “wave function,” and what does it do for you [once you’ve got it]? After all, a [[particle]], by its nature, is [localized at a point](((KBbEwRz19))), whereas the [[wave function]] (as its name suggests) is [spread out in space](((aBIZxAxoS))) (it’s a function of x, for any given t). How can [such an object] [represent the state of a particle]? 
(粒子-定域在某一点处；波-弥散在空间中)
    - The answer is provided by [Born’s statistical interpretation](((joccgnQKd))), which says that $$|\Psi(x, t)|^{2}$$ gives [the probability of finding the particle](((2Gz8Gv0ID))) at point x, at time t—or, more precisely,[3]
$$\int_{a}^{b}|\Psi(x, t)|^{2} d x=\left\{\begin{array}{l}
\text { probability of finding the particle } \\
\text { between } a \text { and } b, \text { at time } t .
\end{array}\right\}$$   (1.3)
        - Probability is the area under the graph of $$\left| \Psi \right|^2$$. For the wave function in Figure 1.2, you [would be quite likely to] [find the particle] [in the vicinity of] point A, where $$\left| \Psi \right|^2$$ is large, and [relatively unlikely to] find it near point B.
(统计诠释-在某时刻某位置处发现某个粒子的概率)
        - Figure 1.2: A typical wave function. The [shaded area] represents [the probability of finding the particle] between a and b. The particle would be relatively likely to be found near A, and unlikely to be found near B.
        - [3]: The wave function itself is complex, but $$|\Psi|^{2}=\Psi^{*} \Psi$$ (where $$\Psi^{*}$$ is the [[complex conjugate]] of Psi) is real and [[non-negative]]—as a [[probability]], of course, must be.
- The statistical interpretation introduces a kind of [[indeterminacy]] into quantum mechanics, for [even if you know everything] [the theory has to tell you] about the particle ([to wit]: its wave function), still you cannot [predict with certainty the outcome of](((6O-IHp5rV))) [a simple experiment] to [measure its position]—all quantum mechanics has to offer is [[statistical information]] about the [possible results](((WdihjFgAT))). This indeterminacy has been [profoundly disturbing to] physicists and philosophers alike, and [it is natural to wonder] whether it is [a fact of nature](((7X4NWl-7H))), or [a defect in the theory](((I_fnobNL0))).
(统计诠释的不确定性-做一个试图测量粒子位置的实验，无法得到精确结果，只能得到统计信息)
    - Suppose I do [measure the position of the particle], and I find it to be at point C.[4] Question: [Where was the particle] [just before I made the measurement]([[measurement]])? There are three [plausible answers] to this question, and they [serve to characterize] the [main schools of thought] regarding [[quantum indeterminacy]]:
(测量该粒子位置之前的那一刻，该粒子处于怎样的状态中？)
        - [4]: Of course, no [measuring instrument](((3W6FSWE8f))) is [perfectly precise]; [what I mean is that] the particle was found [in the vicinity of C](((kTwovmWPF))), as defined by [the precision of the equipment](((-uZTFXP7L))).
        - 1. The [realist position](((MnoCv7_Fa))): The particle was at C. This certainly seems reasonable, and it is the response Einstein advocated. Note, however, that if this is true then quantum mechanics is an [incomplete theory](((wrJSwlmNX))), since the particle really was at C, and yet quantum mechanics was [unable to tell us so]. To the realist, indeterminacy is not a fact of nature, but [a reflection of our ignorance](((M0dt1T8uL))). As d’Espagnat put it, “[the position of the particle] was never indeterminate, but was merely unknown to the experimenter.” 5 Evidently Psi is [not the whole story]—some [additional information](((VQ3voDMAQ))) (known as a [[hidden variable]]) is needed to provide [a complete description of](((-opJOGgrc))) the particle.
(实在论-量子力学不完备-波函数并非全部的故事/并没有包含粒子状态的全部信息-存在未知的信息-隐变量)
            - [5]: Bernard d’Espagnat, “The Quantum Theory and Reality” ([[Scientific American]], November 1979, p. 165).
        - 2. The [orthodox position](((RPNj94Yzk))): The particle wasn’t really anywhere. It was the [act of measurement](((PWhrQgNB_))) that forced it to “take a stand” (though how and why it decided on the point C [we dare not ask]). Jordan said it most starkly: “[Observations]([[observation]]) not only [disturb what is to be measured], they produce it …We compel [the particle] to [assume a definite position](((ZWHgXWfJq))).” 6 This view (the so-called [[Copenhagen interpretation]]), is associated with Bohr and his followers. Among physicists it has always been [the most widely accepted position]. Note, however, that [if it is correct] there is something very peculiar about the act of measurement—something that [almost a century of debate has done] precious little to illuminate.
(测量行为并非干扰了待测粒子，实际上，测量行为创造了待测粒子的存在-制造了一个具有确切位置的粒子-该诠释使得测量行为无比的诡异)
210326-23:40
            - [6]: Quoted in [a lovely article] by N. David Mermin, “Is the moon there when nobody looks?” ([[Physics Today]], April 1985, p. 38).
(如果没有任何人在看月亮，月亮真的还存在于那里吗？)
        - 3. The [agnostic position](((4q4agegF2))): Refuse to answer. This is not quite as silly as it sounds—after all, [what sense can there be] in [making assertions about](((fGzjRrPPx))) [the status of a particle before a measurement](((VfbAh1l6c))), when the only way of [knowing whether you were right] is precisely to make a measurement, in which case [what you get] is no longer “[before the measurement](((5U7xorh2b)))”? It is [[metaphysics]] (in the pejorative sense of the word) to [worry about something] that cannot, by its nature, be tested. Pauli said: “One should no more [rack one’s brain about the problem of] whether something one cannot know anything about exists all the same, than about the ancient question of how many angels are able to [sit on the point of a needle].” 7 For decades this was the “fall-back” position of most physicists: they’d try to sell you the [orthodox answer], but if you were persistent they’d [retreat to the agnostic response], and [terminate the conversation].
(不可知论-粒子在测量之前的状态无法通过测量以外的方法得到-从本质上来说就是无法实证的-这不是物理学作为实验科学所应当关心的-“针尖上的天使”-闭嘴计算)
            - [7]: Ibid., p. 40.
        - Until fairly recently, all three positions (realist, orthodox, and agnostic) [had their partisans](((vKQxUIqFL))). But in 1964 [[John Bell]] [astonished the physics community](((jlj2No37R))) by showing that it [makes an observable difference](((pPTDBTVQu))) whether the particle [had a precise (though unknown) position] [[prior to the measurement]], or not. Bell’s discovery [effectively eliminated] agnosticism [as a viable option](((u93PW58OQ))), and [made it an experimental question] whether 1 or 2 is the [correct choice]. 
            - I’ll [return to this story] [at the end of the book], when you [will be in a better position to] appreciate Bell’s argument; for now, [suffice it to say that] the experiments have [decisively confirmed] the [orthodox interpretation]:[8] a particle simply does not have a [[precise position]] [prior to measurement], any more than [the ripples on a pond](((94wpYdlhI))) do; it is the [measurement process] that [insists on one particular number], and thereby in a sense [creates the specific result], limited only by the [[statistical weighting]] imposed by the wave function.
            - [8]: This statement is a little too strong: there exist viable [nonlocal hidden variable theories](((bZZht88w8))) (notably [[David Bohm]]’s), and [other formulations](((GM_LCG6G0))) (such as the [[many worlds interpretation (MWI)]]) that [do not fit cleanly into] any of my three categories. But I think it is wise, at least from [a pedagogical point of view], to adopt [a clear and coherent platform] at this stage, and [worry about the alternatives] later.
    - What if I [made a second measurement], immediately after the first? Would I get C again, or does [the act of measurement] [cough up some completely new number] each time? On this question everyone is in agreement: A [[repeated measurement]] (on the same particle) must [return the same value]. Indeed, [it would be tough to prove that] the particle was really found at C [in the first instance], if this [could not be confirmed by] [immediate repetition of the measurement]. 
        - How does the orthodox interpretation [account for the fact that] the second measurement is bound to [yield the value](((0R9WorUdA))) C? It must be that the [first measurement] [radically alters the wave function], so that it is now [sharply peaked about](((cZPSJm-s7))) C (Figure 1.3). We say that the [[wave function collapses]], upon measurement, to a spike at the point C (it soon [spreads out again], in accordance with the [[Schrödinger equation]], so the second measurement [must be made quickly]). There are, then, two [entirely distinct kinds of] [[physical process]]es: “ordinary” ones, in which the wave function [evolves in a leisurely fashion](((GwS2LcvkZ))) under the Schrödinger equation, and “measurements,” in which Psi suddenly and discontinuously collapses.[9]
(在完成第一次测量之后，迅速进行反复的测量，能得到一致的结果--两种截然不同的物理过程：普通过程-波函数遵守薛定谔方程演化；测量过程-波函数坍缩)
        - Figure 1.3: Collapse of the wave function: graph of Psi-mod^2 [immediately after a measurement] has found the particle at point C.
        - [9]: The role of measurement in quantum mechanics is so critical and so bizarre that you may well be wondering [what precisely constitutes a measurement]. I’ll [return to this thorny issue] in the Afterword; [for the moment] [let’s take the naive view]: a measurement is [the kind of thing that] a scientist [in a white coat](((MbHWnPehw))) does [in the laboratory](((EDMeg2W6x))), with rulers, stopwatches, Geiger counters, and so on.
(测量是由怎样的步骤组成的？)
210327-02:15
- **Example 1.1
Electron Interference.** I have asserted that particles (electrons, for example) have a [[wave nature]], [encoded](((AJ_J-wmTJ))) in Psi. How might we check this, in the laboratory? #[[electron interference]]
    - The [classic signature](((qQjPYFN_T))) of a [[wave phenomenon]] is [[interference]]: two waves [[in phase]] [[interfere constructively]], and [[out of phase]] they [[interfere destructively]]. The [[wave nature of light]] was confirmed in 1801 by Young’s famous [[double-slit experiment]], showing [interference “fringes”](((kN2H3900C))) on a [distant screen](((j0VNhIQ05))) when a [[monochromatic beam]] [passes through two slits]. If [essentially the same experiment] is done with electrons, [the same pattern develops](((7BhAHdmDz))),[10] confirming the wave nature of electrons.
(波的特征-干涉--双缝干涉实验--电子干涉-电子的波本性)
210327-03:25
        - [10]: Because [the wavelength of electrons] is typically very small, the slits have to be [extremely close together]. Historically, this was first achieved by Davisson and Germer, in 1925, using the [atomic layers in a crystal] as “slits.” For [an interesting account], see R. K. Gehrenbeck, __Physics Today__, January 1978, page 34.
(由于电子的波长极小，相应的狭缝也得做的很小-晶体上的原子层)
    - Now suppose we [decrease the intensity of] the [[electron beam]], until only one electron is present in the [[apparatus]] [at any particular time]. According to the statistical interpretation each electron will [produce a spot on the screen]. Quantum mechanics cannot predict the [precise location](((ZWHgXWfJq))) of that spot—[all it can tell us] is the probability of [a given electron] [landing at a particular place]. But if we are patient, and wait for a hundred thousand electrons—one at a time—to [make the trip], the [[accumulating spots]] reveal the classic two-slit [[interference pattern]] (Figure 1.4).[11]
(降低电子束的强度直至每一给定时间段内只发射出一个电子-一个电子打在屏幕上产生一个点，其位置无法预测，只能给出到达各坐标点处的概率-大量电子累积形成干涉条纹)
210327-03:40
        - Figure 1.4: Build-up of the [electron interference pattern]. (a) Eight electrons, (b) 270 electrons, (c) 2000 electrons, (d) 160,000 electrons. Reprinted courtesy of the Central Research Laboratory, Hitachi, Ltd., Japan.
        - [11]: See Tonomura et al., [[American Journal of Physics (Am. J. Phys.)]], Volume 57, Issue 2, pp. 117–120 (1989), and the amazing [associated video] [at](www.hitachi.com/rd/portal/highlight/quantum/doubleslit/). This experiment can now be done with much more [massive particles](((tRfp8tpDV))), including “Bucky-balls”; see M. Arndt, et al., __Nature__ **40**, 680 (1999). Incidentally, 顺便一提 the same thing can be done with light: [turn the intensity so low](((1UzWaxCK9))) that only one “photon” is present at a time and you get an identical [point-by-point assembly](((yO7MDeVtz))) of the interference pattern. See R. S. Aspden, M. J. Padgett, and G. C. Spalding, __Am. J. Phys.__ **84**, 671 (2016).
210327-04:30
    - Of course, if you [close off one slit], or somehow [contrive to detect] [which slit each electron passes through], the interference pattern disappears; the wave function of the [emerging particle] is now [entirely different] ([in the first case] because the [[boundary condition]]s for the Schrödinger equation have been changed, and in the second because of the [[collapse of the wave function]] upon measurement). 
(若是关闭双缝之一，或是试图探测每个电子究竟通过了哪一条缝，则干涉条纹消失-原因是这时的波函数发生了变化-薛定谔方程的边界条件-波函数坍缩)
        - But with both slits open, and [no interruption of](((bofqSW6Hl))) [the electron in flight], each electron [interferes with itself]([[self interference]]); it didn’t pass through one slit or the other, but through both at once, just as a [[water wave]], impinging on [a jetty with two openings], 撞击有两个开口的码头 interferes with itself. There is nothing mysterious about this, once you have [accepted the notion that] [particles obey a wave equation]. 
(水波与自身的干涉-当粒子同样遵循类似的波动方程时)
        - [The truly astonishing thing] is the blip-by-blip assembly of the pattern. 逐点装配 In any [classical wave theory] the pattern would [develop smoothly and continuously], simply [getting more intense] [as time goes on]. The [[quantum process]] is more like [the pointillist painting of Seurat]: [The picture emerges from] the [cumulative contributions](((_fLQ8ScA5))) of [all the individual dots].[12]
(经典波的干涉-随着时间流逝，干涉条纹越来越强烈，此变化过程是平滑连续的；量子干涉-每个粒子的逐个累积最终形成了干涉条纹--量子力学反直觉之处不在于粒子同样遵循波动方程，而在于这个粒子/波的客体竟然是^^量子化的，而不是连续的！(微积分真的还能完美地适用吗？)^^)
210327-04:01 #pt10-100
        - [12]: I think [it is important to distinguish] things like interference and diffraction ^^that would hold for any wave theory^^ from the [uniquely quantum mechanical features] of the [[measurement process]], which derive from the statistical interpretation.
(统计诠释决定了量子测量过程的特殊地位，带来了一些真正反直觉的性质；认同粒子同样遵循波动方程从而带来的一些干涉和衍射性质与之是两码事---量子测量，统计性，量子化，需要全新的波动方程 v.s. 常规的干涉现象，任何波都具有的性质，一般的经典的波动方程)
210327-04:42
