- Part 1 — A complete beginner's guide to Computer Programming with Clojure.
    - **Part 1 **is [a simple introduction to] the world of [computer coding]. [A number of parts] will follow and each [should be considered like] [the chapter of a Book]. In **Part 2**, [you will be introduced to] a free Virtual Machine with all the [necessary resources] pre-installed.
    - ## Introduction
        - I often refer to a computer, or [computing enabled device] such as a [[smartphone]], as the ‘Machine’. In other words, [any machine capable of] being programmed (Not your [washing machine](((TIIb--9QZ)))). I first began to try and understand the ‘Machine’ in 1982. At this time, Computer Science, or as it was known at the time, Computer Studies, was the ‘new kid’ in school. At the time, I saved up all my pennies from [paper-rounds](((QAtW1P6XK))) and other [[part-time job]]s to purchase my very first Machine, a Sinclair ZX81. At this time, the [programming language] to know was [[Language/BASIC]]. BASIC stood for ‘Beginners All-Purpose Symbolic Instruction Code.’ Compared to my ZX81, the school computer was a highly advanced device built by a local company called Research Machines. It had a 5 and a quarter inch floppy disk and 4K RAM; wealthy schools had BBC Micros or Apples! At this time, the Processor or CPU (central processing unit) was more than likely a Z80 processor. To get the most out of this processor (especially with only 1K of RAM), you needed to know low-level Assembly language. This meant injecting your BASIC code with Peek and Poke commands — necessary to force in Assembly mnemonics and get the most out of the processor. Nevertheless, because of inherent hardware limitations, coding on these old machines ensured you learned to code efficiently and strictly.
210419-09:39
- [[Part 9 — Regular Expressions (REGEX).]]
