- This article is about a [quantitative expression]. For the process itself, see Absorption (electromagnetic radiation).
"Optical density" redirects here. For other uses, see Refractive index, Nucleic acid quantitation, and Neutral-density filter.
- Absorbance is commonly defined[1](((OzNUPSWgG))) as "the [[logarithm]] of the ratio of incident to transmitted [[radiant power]] through a [[sample]] (excluding the effects on [[cell wall]]s)". Alternatively, for samples which scatter light, absorbance may be defined as "the [negative logarithm] of one minus [[absorptance]], as measured on a [[uniform sample]]".[2](((rdCDqJIly))) The term is used in many [technical areas] to [quantify the results of] an [experimental measurement].  
    - While the term has its origin in [quantifying the absorption of light]([[light absorption]]), [it is often entangled with] [quantification of light which is “lost” to] a [[detector]] system [through other mechanisms].  What [these uses of the term] [tend to have in common] is that they refer to a logarithm of the ratio of a quantity of light incident on a sample or material to that which is detected after the light has [interacted with the sample].  
210828-16:40
    - The term [[absorption]] refers to the [[physical process]] of [absorbing light], while absorbance does not always [measure only absorption]: it may measure [[attenuation]] (of [transmitted radiant power](((h7pB6Gh8b)))), caused by absorption, but also reflection, scattering, and other physical processes.
210828-17:05
(吸光度的测量不仅包括光的吸收，还包括透射光的能量衰减——吸收、反射、散射等所有能够引起衰减的物理过程)
- ## History and uses of the term absorbance
    - ### Bouguer-Lambert law
        - The roots of the term absorbance are in the law of Bouguer ([[Bouguer-Lambert law]]).  As light [moves through a media](((qfU6t6GvB))), [it will become dimmer] [as it is being "extinguished"].  Bouguer recognized that this [[extinction]] (now often called [[attenuation]]) [was not linear with distance] [traveled through the medium], but related by what we now refer to as an [exponential function].  
            - If {\displaystyle I_{0}}I_{0} is [the intensity of the light]([[light intensity]]) [at the beginning of the travel] and {\displaystyle I_{s}}I_s is the intensity of the light detected [after travel of a distance] d, the fraction transmitted, T, is given by:  $${\displaystyle T={\frac {I_{s}}{I_{0}}}=exp(-\mu d)}$$, where \mu  is called an [[attenuation constant]] (a term [used in various fields] where a signal is transmitted though a medium) or coefficient.  [The amount of light transmitted] is [falling off exponentially with distance].  
            - Taking the [Napierian (natural) logarithm]([[Napierian logarithm]]) in the above equation, we get:  $${\displaystyle -ln(T)=ln{\frac {I_{0}}{I_{s}}}=\mu d}$$ . For scattering media, the constant is often divided into two parts, $${\displaystyle \mu =\mu _{s}+\mu _{a}}$$ , separating it into a [[scattering coefficient]], {\displaystyle \mu _{s}}{\displaystyle \mu _{s}}, and an [[absorption coefficient]], {\displaystyle \mu _{a}}\mu_a,[3](((dT6KTmzxS))) obtaining: $${\displaystyle -ln(T)=ln{\frac {I_{0}}{I_{s}}}=(\mu _{s}+\mu _{a})d}$$ .
210828-21:25, 210829-08:02
    - ### Optics
        - In optics, absorbance or [decadic absorbance] is the [[common logarithm]] of the ratio of incident to transmitted radiant power [through a material], and [[spectral absorbance]] or spectral decadic absorbance is the common logarithm of the ratio of incident to transmitted spectral radiant power through a material. Absorbance is [[dimensionless]], and in particular is not a length, though it is a [monotonically increasing function](((tI_s5ioC2))) of [path length], and approaches zero [as the path length approaches zero]. The use of the term "[[optical density]]" for absorbance is discouraged.
210829-08:14
- ## References
    - [1]: [IUPAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Union_of_Pure_and_Applied_Chemistry), __[Compendium of Chemical Terminology]__, 2nd ed. (the "Gold Book") (1997). 纲要/概略 Online corrected version:  (2006–) "[Absorbance](https://goldbook.iupac.org/A00028.html)". [doi]:[10.1351/goldbook.A00028](https://doi.org/10.1351%2Fgoldbook.A00028)
    - [2]: Chemistry (IUPAC), The International Union of Pure and Applied. ["IUPAC - decadic absorbance (D01536)"](https://goldbook.iupac.org/terms/view/D01536). __goldbook.iupac.org__. [doi]:[10.1351/goldbook.d01536](https://doi.org/10.1351%2Fgoldbook.d01536). Retrieved 2021-05-24.
    - [3]: ["Light scattering by small particles. By H. C. van de Hulst. New York (John Wiley and Sons), London (Chapman and Hall), 1957. Pp. xiii, 470; 103 Figs.; 46 Tables. 96s"](https://rmets.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/qj.49708436025). __Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society__. **84** (360): 198–199. 1958. [doi]:[10.1002/qj.49708436025](https://doi.org/10.1002%2Fqj.49708436025). [ISSN] [1477-870X](https://www.worldcat.org/issn/1477-870X).
