- Absorption spectroscopy refers to [spectroscopic techniques] that [measure the absorption of radiation], as a function of frequency or wavelength, due to its [interaction with a sample]. The sample [absorbs energy], i.e., photons, from the [radiating field](((WfTrPRRqE))). [The intensity of the absorption] [varies as a function of frequency], and this variation is the [[absorption spectrum]]. Absorption spectroscopy is performed across the [[electromagnetic spectrum]].
211013-10:37
    - Absorption spectroscopy is employed as an [[analytical chemistry]] tool to [determine the presence of] [a particular substance] [in a sample] and, in many cases, to [quantify the amount of] [the substance present]. Infrared and ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy are particularly common in analytical applications. Absorption spectroscopy is also employed in studies of molecular and atomic physics, astronomical spectroscopy and remote sensing.
    - There is a wide range of experimental approaches for measuring absorption spectra. The most common arrangement is to direct a generated beam of radiation at a sample and detect the intensity of the radiation that passes through it. The transmitted energy can be used to calculate the absorption. The source, sample arrangement and detection technique vary significantly depending on the frequency range and the purpose of the experiment.
    - Following are the [major types of] absorption spectroscopy:[1]
        - **Sr. No** -- **Electromagnetic Radiation** -- **Spectroscopic type**
2 - Ultraviolet–visible - [UV–vis absorption spectroscopy](((-t6dWNSlR)))
3 - infrared - IR absorption spectroscopy
5 - radio wave - [Electron spin resonance spectroscopy] -- nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR)
- Experimental methods
    - Basic approach
        - [The most straightforward approach to] absorption spectroscopy is to [generate radiation with a source], measure a [[reference spectrum]] of that radiation with a [[detector]] and then re-measure the [[sample spectrum]] after placing [the material of interest] in [between the source and detector]. The two [measured spectra] [can then be combined to determine] the material's absorption spectrum. The sample spectrum alone is not sufficient to determine the absorption spectrum because [it will be affected by] the [[experimental condition]]s—the spectrum of the source, the absorption spectra of other materials in between the source and detector and the wavelength dependent characteristics of the detector. The reference spectrum will be affected in the same way, though, by these experimental conditions and therefore the combination yields the absorption spectrum of the material alone.
(先测辐射源的参考光谱，再测样品光谱)
211013-10:45
        - [A wide variety of] [[radiation source]]s are employed in order to [cover the electromagnetic spectrum]. For spectroscopy, [it is generally desirable for a source to] [cover a broad swath of wavelengths] in order to [measure a broad region of] the [[absorption spectrum]]. Some sources inherently [emit a broad spectrum]. Examples of these include [[globar]]s or other [[black body source]]s in the infrared, [[mercury lamp]]s [in the visible and ultraviolet] and [[x-ray tube]]s. One recently developed, [novel source] of [broad spectrum radiation] is [[synchrotron radiation]] which [covers all of these spectral regions]. Other radiation sources [generate a narrow spectrum] but the [[emission wavelength]] can be tuned to cover a [[spectral range]]. Examples of these include klystrons in the microwave region and lasers across the infrared, visible and ultraviolet region (though not all lasers have tunable wavelengths).
220422-09:20
