- 模拟信号输出, 模拟量输出
    - 4-20mA / 0-20mA / 0-5V / 0-10V
    - 磁环抗干扰电路
- ---
- An analog signal is any [[continuous signal]] [representing some other quantity], i.e., analogous to another quantity. 类同于 For example, in an analog [[audio signal]], the instantaneous signal voltage [varies continuously] with the pressure of the [[sound wave]]s. #[[sound pressure]]
220806-00:42
    - In contrast, a [[digital signal]] represents the original [[time-varying quantity]] as a [[sampled sequence]] of [[quantized value]]s which imposes some [[bandwidth]] and [[dynamic range]] [constraints on the representation].
    - The term analog signal usually refers to [[electrical signal]]s; however, mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, and [other systems] may also convey or be considered analog signals.
220806-00:50
- Representation
    - An analog signal [uses some property of the medium to] [convey the signal's information]. For example, an [[aneroid barometer]] uses [[rotary position]] as the signal to [convey pressure information]. In an electrical signal, the voltage, current, or frequency of the signal [may be varied] to [represent the information].
    - Any information may be conveyed by an analog signal; such a signal may be a measured response to changes in a physical variable, such as sound, light, temperature, position, or pressure. The physical variable is converted to an analog signal by a transducer. For example, sound striking the diaphragm of a microphone induces corresponding fluctuations in the current produced by a coil in an electromagnetic microphone or the voltage produced by a condenser microphone. The voltage or the current is said to be an analog of the sound.
- # From [[ScienceDirect]] Topics
    - Analog signals are in the form of a continuous time-varying physical quantity, such as voltage magnitude or frequency, that reflects the variations of the information or signal source with time.
        - From: [Encyclopedia of Physical Science and Technology (Third Edition), 2003](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B0122274105001654)
    - ## [Signal Processing, Analog](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B0122274105006864)
        - W.K. Jenkins, in [Encyclopedia of Physical Science and Technology (Third Edition)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/referencework/9780122274107/encyclopedia-of-physical-science-and-technology), 2003
        - ### I Introduction
            - [Analog signals](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/analog-signal) are processed by [specially designed devices], circuits, or systems to extract [[parametric information]] or to [alter the characteristics of] the [[input signal]] [in some prescribed way]. 以某种规定的方式 [[spectral shaping]] is [probably the most common form of] [[analog signal processing]] and is typically done with either passive (containing resistors, capacitors, and inductors) or active [containing resistors, capacitors, and operational amplifiers (op amps)] [[analog filter]]s. 
                - The [[active filter]] is probably the most common [[analog signal processor]] in use today. During the past few years, switched-capacitor filters have become popular [as high-precision replacements for] certain types of active filters that are to be realized in monolithic form as part of a more extensive integrated system. Switched-capacitor circuits, which contain capacitors, transistor switches, and operational amplifiers, have been successfully used for analog pre- and postfilters required at the interface between analog and digital systems. This subject is treated in more detail in Section VI. Both active filters and switched-capacitor filters are [closely related historically to] the [[analog computer]], from which the term analog [first originated].
220806-01:00
            - Analog signals can be processed by many different types of devices, some of which are surface acoustic wave (SAW) filters, charge-coupled devices (CCDs), high-frequency distributed-parameter circuits, or optical circuits, to name only a few. Since it will not be possible to discuss all the different classes of analog processing techniques and devices, and because many of these are treated elsewhere, attention will be devoted to reviewing important mathematical tools used in analog signal analysis, discussing the connection between modern analog signal processing and its origins in the analog computer, and examining several particularly important historical topics in analog signal processing. These special topics include switched-capacitor filters, electronically tunable analog filters, nonlinear modeling by means of the analog computer, and image reconstruction for synthetic aperture radar by optical processing techniques.
