- Bell's theorem proves that [[quantum physics]] is incompatible with [certain types of] [local hidden-variable theories](((ZelKAMd3n))). [It was introduced by] physicist [[John Stewart Bell]] in a 1964 paper titled "On the [[Einstein Podolsky Rosen Paradox (EPRP)]]", referring to a 1935 [[thought experiment]] that [[Albert Einstein]], [[Boris Podolsky]] and [[Nathan Rosen]] used [in order to argue that] quantum physics is [an "incomplete" theory].[1][2] 
    - By 1935, [it was already recognized that] [the predictions of quantum physics are probabilistic](((1G-_MOIj_))). Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen [presented a scenario that], in their view, indicated that [[quantum particle]]s, like electrons and photons, must [carry physical properties or attributes]([[physical property]]) [not included in quantum theory], and [the uncertainties in quantum theory's predictions] were [due to ignorance of these properties]([[ignorance]]), [later termed] "[[hidden variable]]s". [Their scenario involves] a pair of [widely separated] [[physical object]]s, [prepared in such a way that] the [[quantum state]] of the pair is [entangled]([[quantum entanglement]]).
220220-15:12, 15:20
    - Bell [carried the analysis of] quantum entanglement much further. He deduced that [if measurements are performed independently on](((GmVCaGX7A))) [the two separated halves of a pair], [then the assumption that] [the outcomes depend upon] [hidden variables within each half] __[implies a constraint on] [how the outcomes on the two halves are correlated]__. This constraint [would later be named] the [[Bell inequality]]. Bell [then showed that] [quantum physics predicts] correlations that [violate this inequality]. Consequently, [the only way that] hidden variables [could explain the predictions of] quantum physics is if they [violate one of the assumptions of the theorem] or are "nonlocal", [somehow associated with both halves of the pair] and [able to carry influences instantly between them] [no matter how widely the two halves are separated].[3][4] As Bell wrote later, "If [a hidden-variable theory] is local [it will not agree with] quantum mechanics, and [if it agrees with quantum mechanics] it will not be local."[5]
    - Multiple variations on Bell's theorem were proved in the following years, introducing other closely related conditions generally known as Bell (or "Bell-type") inequalities. These have been tested experimentally in physics laboratories many times since 1972. Often, these experiments have had the goal of ameliorating problems of experimental design or set-up that could in principle affect the validity of the findings of earlier Bell tests. This is known as "closing loopholes in Bell tests". To date, Bell tests have found that the hypothesis of local hidden variables is inconsistent with the way that physical systems do, in fact, behave.[6][7]
    - The exact nature of the assumptions required to prove a Bell-type constraint on correlations has been debated by physicists and by philosophers. While the significance of Bell's theorem is not in doubt, its full implications for the interpretation of quantum mechanics remain unresolved.
