- Carlo Rovelli is an Italian [[theoretical physicist]] and writer who has worked in Italy, the United States and, since 2000, in France.[1] He works [mainly in the field of] [[quantum gravity]] and is a founder of [[loop quantum gravity]] theory. He has also worked in the [history and philosophy of science]. He collaborates with several [Italian newspapers], including the [cultural supplements] (增刊; 补编，补遗，附录) of the Corriere della Sera, Il Sole 24 Ore and La Repubblica. 晚邮报，24小时太阳报和共和报。
210306-01:56
    - His [[popular science]] book, [[Seven Brief Lessons on Physics]], was [originally published in] Italian in 2014. [It has been translated into] 41 languages[2] and [has sold over a million copies] worldwide.[3] In 2019, he was included by [[Foreign Policy magazine]] in a list of [100 most influential global thinkers].[4]
- Life and career
    - Carlo Rovelli was born in Verona, Italy, on 3 May 1956. He attended the Liceo Classico Scipione Maffei (Classical High School) in Verona. In the 1970s, he participated in the [student political movements] in Italian universities. He was involved with the free political [[radio station]]s [Radio Alice] in Bologna and [Radio Anguana] in Verona, which he helped found.[5] In conjunction with his [[political activity]], he was charged, but later released, for [[crime]]s of [opinion related to] the book Fatti Nostri, which he co-authored with Enrico Palandri, Maurizio Torrealta, and Claudio Piersanti.[6]
210306-03:33
    - In 1981, Rovelli graduated with a [BS/MS in physics] from the [[University of Bologna]], and in 1986 he obtained his [[PhD]] at the [[University of Padova]], Italy. Rovelli refused [[military service]], which was compulsory in Italy at the time, and was therefore [briefly detained] 短暂拘留 in 1987.[7] He held [[postdoctoral position]]s at the [[University of Rome]], the [International School] for [Advanced Studies] in Trieste (Driaste) and at [[Yale University]]. 
        - Rovelli was [on the faculty of]([[faculty]]) the [[University of Pittsburgh]] from 1990 to 2000.[8] He currently works in the Centre de Physique Théorique de Luminy (the Luminy Theoretical Physics Center) of Aix-Marseille University.[9] He has also [held the post of] [[affiliated professor]] 担任副教授 in the [Department of History] and [Philosophy of Science] of the University of Pittsburgh.
210306-11:45
            - Officials briefly detained Mr Luo and the [head teacher] of another condemned [migrants' school] 农民工子弟学校 to prevent them [petitioning higher authorities]. 串联把事情闹大 www.[snzg].net
- Main contributions
    - In 1988, Rovelli, [[Lee Smolin]] and [[Abhay Ashtekar]] introduced a theory of quantum gravity called loop quantum gravity. In 1995, Rovelli and Smolin obtained a [[basis of states]] of quantum gravity, labeled by [[Penrose]]'s [[spin network]]s, and using this basis [they were able to show that] the theory predicts that [[area]] and [[volume]] are [[quantized]]. This result indicates the existence of [[a discrete structure of space]] [at a very small scale]. 
        - In 1997, Rovelli and Michael Reisenberger introduced a "sum over surfaces" formulation of the theory, which has since evolved into the currently covariant "spinfoam" version of loop quantum gravity. In 2008, [in collaboration with] Jonathan Engle and Roberto Pereira, he has introduced the [spin foam vertex amplitude](((neVwyavz0))) 顶点振幅 which is the basis of the [current definition] of the loop quantum gravity [[covariant dynamics]]. Loop theory is today [considered a candidate for] [a quantum theory of gravity]. It [finds applications in] [[quantum cosmology]], [[spinfoam cosmology]] and [[quantum black hole]] physics.
