- In statistics, a [confidence interval (CI)] is a type of [[estimate]] [computed from the statistics of] the [[observed data]]. This [gives a range of values for] an [unknown parameter] (for example, a population mean). The interval [has an associated confidence level]([[confidence level]]) that [gives the probability] with which an [estimated interval] will [contain the true value of the parameter]. The confidence level is chosen by the [[investigator]]. [For a given estimation]([[estimation]]) [in a given sample]([[sample]]), [using a higher confidence level] generates a wider (i.e., less precise) confidence interval. In general terms, a confidence interval for an [[unknown parameter]] is based on [sampling the distribution of] a [corresponding estimator]([[estimator]]).[1] 相应估计量的分布抽样
210705-16:40
    - This means that the confidence level represents the theoretical [[long-run frequency]] (i.e., the [[proportion]]) of confidence intervals that [contain the true value of] [the unknown population parameter]. In other words, 90% of confidence intervals computed at the 90% confidence level [contain the parameter], 95% of confidence intervals computed at the 95% confidence level contain the parameter, 99% of confidence intervals computed at the 99% confidence level contain the parameter, etc.[2]
(置信水平代表了置信区间中包含了该未知参数真实值的长期频率/即比率)
210705-16:55
    - The confidence level is designated [before examining the data]. Most commonly, a [[95% confidence level]] is used.[3] However, other confidence levels, such as 90% or 99%, are sometimes used.
    - Factors affecting the width of the confidence interval include the size of the sample, the confidence level, and the variability in the sample. A larger sample will tend to produce a better estimate of the population parameter, when all other factors are equal. A higher confidence level will tend to produce a broader confidence interval.
    - Factors affecting the width of the confidence interval include the size of the sample, the confidence level, and the variability in the sample. A larger sample will tend to produce a better estimate of the population parameter, when all other factors are equal. A higher confidence level will tend to produce a broader confidence interval.
    - Many confidence intervals are of the form $${\displaystyle (t-c\sigma _{T},t+c\sigma _{T})}$$, where {\displaystyle t}t is the realization of the dataset, c is a constant and $${\displaystyle \sigma _{T}}$$ is the standard deviation of the dataset.[1]
    - Another way to express the form of confidence interval is a set of two parameters: (point estimate – error bound, point estimate + error bound), or symbolically expressed as (–EBM, +EBM), where (point estimate) serves as an estimate for m (the population mean) and EBM is the error bound for a population mean.[2]
    - The margin of error (EBM) depends on the confidence level.[2]
