- The [[resolution]] of an [[optical imaging system]] – a [[microscope]], [[telescope]], or [[camera]] – [can be limited by factors such as] [imperfections in the lenses] or [[misalignment]]. 镜片有缺陷或错位 However, [there is a principal limit to] the resolution of any [[optical system]], due to the physics of diffraction. An optical system with resolution performance at the instrument's theoretical limit is said to be diffraction-limited.[1](((pKKBjYttk)))
    - The diffraction-limited [[angular resolution]] of a [telescopic instrument](((22TMyTUql))) is [proportional to the wavelength of the light] being observed, and [inversely proportional to](((bKVK1RPj3))) the diameter of its [[objective]]'s [[entrance aperture]]. For telescopes with [[circular aperture]]s, [the size of the smallest feature in an image] that is diffraction limited is the size of the [[Airy disk]]. As one [decreases the size of the aperture] of a [telescopic lens], diffraction [proportionately increases](((i6sqbapYy))). At small apertures, such as f/22, [most modern lenses] are [limited only by diffraction] and not by [[aberration]]s or other [[imperfection]]s in the construction.
210605-05:16
    - For [microscopic instruments](((qIIxYM1Se))), the diffraction-limited [[spatial resolution]] is proportional to the [light wavelength]([[wavelength]]), and to the [[numerical aperture]] of either the [[objective]] or the [object illumination source](((HNjnMd2F5))), 物镜或物体照明光源 whichever is smaller.
210605-05:24
    - In astronomy, a diffraction-limited observation is one that achieves the resolution of a theoretically ideal objective in the size of instrument used. However, most observations from Earth are seeing-limited due to atmospheric effects. Optical telescopes on the Earth work at a much lower resolution than the diffraction limit because of the distortion introduced by the passage of light through several kilometres of turbulent atmosphere. Some advanced observatories have recently started using adaptive optics technology, resulting in greater image resolution for faint targets, but it is still difficult to reach the diffraction limit using adaptive optics.
        - Radiotelescopes are frequently diffraction-limited, because the wavelengths they use (from millimeters to meters) are so long that the atmospheric distortion is negligible. Space-based telescopes (such as Hubble, or a number of non-optical telescopes) always work at their diffraction limit, if their design is free of optical aberration.
    - The beam from a laser with near-ideal beam propagation properties may be described as being diffraction-limited. A diffraction-limited laser beam, passed through diffraction-limited optics, will remain diffraction-limited, and will have a spatial or angular extent essentially equal to the resolution of the optics at the wavelength of the laser.
- References
    - [1]: Born, Max; Emil Wolf (1997). __[Principles of Optics]__. [Cambridge University Press]. [ISBN] [0-521-63921-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0-521-63921-2).
    - [6]: [Sheppard, C.J.R.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colin_Sheppard); Mao, X.Q. (September 1989). "[[three-dimensional imaging]] in a [[microscope]]". __Journal of the Optical Society of America A__. **6** (9): 1260–1269. [Bibcode]:[1989JOSAA...6.1260S](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1989JOSAA...6.1260S). [doi]:[10.1364/JOSAA.6.001260](https://doi.org/10.1364%2FJOSAA.6.001260).
- External links
    - Puts, Erwin (September 2003). ["Chapter 3: 180 mm and 280 mm lenses"](https://web.archive.org/web/20081217074256/http://en.leica-camera.com/assets/file/download.php?filename=file_1864.pdf) (PDF). __Leica R-Lenses__. [[Leica Camera]]. Archived from [the original](http://en.leica-camera.com/assets/file/download.php?filename=file_1864.pdf) (PDF) on December 17, 2008. Describes the Leica APO-Telyt-R 280mm f/4, a diffraction-limited [photographic lens].
210605-05:30
