- The electron electric dipole moment (EDM) d_e is an [[intrinsic property]] of an electron such that the [[potential energy]] is [linearly related to] [the strength of the electric field]([[electric field strength]]): $$U = \mathbf d_{\rm e} \cdot \mathbf E.$$
    - The electron's EDM [must be collinear with the direction of] the electron's [magnetic moment (spin)]([[spin magnetic moment]]).[1] Within [the Standard Model of elementary particle physics]([[standard model]]), such a dipole is predicted to be [non-zero but very small], at most 10^−38 e⋅cm,[2](((pajM6gqrz))) where e stands for the [[elementary charge]]. The discovery of a [substantially larger] electron electric dipole moment would imply a violation of both [[parity invariance]] and [[time reversal invariance]].[3](((BZtqfobNe)))[4](((ASv_ojBG6)))
220213-12:08
- Implications for Standard Model and extensions
    - In the Standard Model, the electron EDM arises from the [CP-violating components]([[CP violation]]) of the [CKM matrix]. The moment is very small because the CP violation [involves quarks], not electrons directly, so [it can only arise by] [[quantum process]]es where [[virtual quark]]s are created, interact with the electron, and then are annihilated.[2][a](((58WMJhmtI)))
220213-17:55, 18:13
    - If neutrinos are Majorana particles, a larger EDM (around 10−33 e⋅cm) is possible in the standard model[2]
    - Many extensions to the Standard Model have been proposed in the past two decades. These extensions generally predict larger values for the electron EDM. For instance, the various technicolor models predict de that ranges from 10−27 to 10−29 e⋅cm.[citation needed] Some supersymmetric models predict that |de| > 10−26 e⋅cm[5] but some other parameter choices or other supersymmetric models lead to smaller predicted values. The present experimental limit therefore eliminates some of these technicolor/supersymmetric theories, but not all. Further improvements, or a positive result,[6] would place further limits on which theory takes precedence.
- Footnotes
    - [a]: More precisely, [a non-zero EDM] [does not arise until the level of] [[four-loop Feynman diagram]]s and higher.[2]
- References
    - [2]: Pospelov, M.; Ritz, A. (2005). "[Electric dipole moments] [as probes of new physics]". __Annals of Physics__. **318** (1): 119–169. [arXiv]:[hep-ph/0504231](https://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0504231). [Bibcode]:[2005AnPhy.318..119P](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2005AnPhy.318..119P). [doi]:[10.1016/j.aop.2005.04.002](https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.aop.2005.04.002). [S2CID] [13827759](https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:13827759).
    - [3]: Khriplovich, I.B.; Lamoreaux, S.K. (1997). [[CP violation]] without [[strangeness]]: Electric __dipole moments of particles, atoms, and molecules__. [Springer-Verlag].
    - [4]: P. R. Bunker and P. Jensen (2005), __Fundamentals of Molecular Symmetry__ (CRC Press) [ISBN] [0-7503-0941-5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0-7503-0941-5) [1](https://www.routledge.com/Fundamentals-of-Molecular-Symmetry/Bunker-Jensen/p/book/9780750309417) Chapter 15 #[[molecular symmetry]]
220213-18:47
