- A fiber-optic sensor is a sensor that uses [[optical fiber]] either as the [[sensing element]] ("[[intrinsic sensor]]s"), or [as a means of] [[relaying signals]] from a [[remote sensor]] to the [[electronics]] that [process the signals]([[signal processing]]) ("[[extrinsic sensor]]s"). 从远程传感器到电子设备的信号中继 Fibers have many uses in [[remote sensing]]. 
    - Depending on the application, fiber may be used because of its small size, or because no [[electrical power]] is needed at the [[remote location]], or because many sensors can be [[multiplexed]] 复用 [along the length of a fiber] by using light [[wavelength shift]] for each sensor, or by sensing the [[time delay]] as [light passes along the fiber] [through each sensor]. Time delay can be determined using a device such as an [[optical time-domain reflectometer]] and wavelength shift can be calculated using an instrument implementing [[optical frequency domain reflectometry]]. 反射仪
- Fiber-optic sensors are also immune to [[electromagnetic interference]], and do not [[conduct electricity]] so they can be used in places where there is [[high voltage electricity]] or [[flammable material]] 高压电或易燃材料 such as [[jet fuel]]. 喷气燃料 Fiber-optic sensors can be designed to [[withstand high temperatures]] as well.
210313-19:57
- Intrinsic sensors
    - Optical fibers can be used as sensors to measure strain,[1](((tirIiDnwB))) temperature, pressure and other quantities by modifying a fiber so that the quantity to be measured modulates the intensity, phase, polarization, wavelength or transit time of light in the fiber. Sensors that vary the intensity of light are the simplest, since only a simple source and detector are required. A particularly useful feature of intrinsic fiber-optic sensors is that they can, if required, provide distributed sensing over very large distances.[2](((K2Z2rDgKD)))
    - Temperature can be measured by using a fiber that has evanescent loss that varies with temperature, or by analyzing the Rayleigh Scattering, Raman scattering or the Brillouin scattering in the optical fiber. Electrical voltage can be sensed by nonlinear optical effects in specially-doped fiber, which alter the polarization of light as a function of voltage or electric field. Angle measurement sensors can be based on the Sagnac effect.
- See also
    - Distributed acoustic sensing
- References
    - [1]: ["Measuring strain on an aircraft in flight"](http://www.4fos.com/pdf/WP_Plane.pdf)(PDF). __[dead link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Link_rot)__
    - [2]: Strong, Andrew P.; Lees, Gareth; Hartog, Arthur H.; Twohig, Richard; Kader, Kamal; Hilton, Graeme (December 2009). "An [[integrated system]] for Pipeline Condition Monitoring". 管道状态监测 __International Petroleum Technology Conference__. [doi]:[10.2523/IPTC-13661-MS](https://doi.org/10.2523%2FIPTC-13661-MS).
210313-20:05
- Categories: Sensors | Fiber optics
