- Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR)[1] is a technique used to obtain an [[infrared spectrum]] of absorption or emission of a solid, liquid or gas. An FTIR spectrometer simultaneously collects high-resolution spectral data [over a wide spectral range]. This confers a significant advantage over a [[dispersive spectrometer]], which measures intensity over a narrow range of wavelengths at a time.
210705-02:58
    - The term Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy [originates from the fact that] a [[Fourier transforms (FTs)]] (a mathematical process) is required to convert the [[raw data]] into the [actual spectrum].
    - An example of an FTIR spectrometer with an [[attenuated total reflectance (ATR)]] attachment
- Conceptual introduction
    - The goal of [[absorption spectroscopy]] techniques (FTIR, ultraviolet-visible ("UV-Vis") spectroscopy, etc.) is to measure how much light a sample absorbs at each wavelength. The most straightforward way to do this, the "[[dispersive spectroscopy]]" technique, is to shine a [[monochromatic light beam]] at a sample, measure how much of the light is absorbed, and repeat for each different wavelength. (This is how some UV–vis spectrometers work, for example.) #[[ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy (UV-Vis)]]
210705-03:05
    - Fourier-transform spectroscopy is a less intuitive way to obtain the same information. Rather than shining a monochromatic beam of light (a beam composed of only a single wavelength) at the sample, this technique shines a beam containing many frequencies of light at once and measures how much of that beam is absorbed by the sample. Next, the beam is modified to contain a different combination of frequencies, giving a second data point. This process is rapidly repeated many times over a short time span. Afterwards, a computer takes all this data and works backward to infer what the absorption is at each wavelength.
    - The beam described above is generated by starting with a broadband light source—one containing the full spectrum of wavelengths to be measured. The light shines into a Michelson interferometer—a certain configuration of mirrors, one of which is moved by a motor. As this mirror moves, each wavelength of light in the beam is periodically blocked, transmitted, blocked, transmitted, by the interferometer, due to wave interference. Different wavelengths are modulated at different rates, so that at each moment or mirror position the beam coming out of the interferometer has a different spectrum.
    - As mentioned, computer processing is required to turn the raw data (light absorption for each mirror position) into the desired result (light absorption for each wavelength). The processing required turns out to be a common algorithm called the Fourier transform. The Fourier transform converts one domain (in this case displacement of the mirror in cm) into its inverse domain (wavenumbers in cm−1). The raw data is called an "interferogram".
