- Fourier optics is the study of [[classical optics]] using [[Fourier transforms (FTs)]], in which [the waveform being considered]([[waveform]]) is regarded as made up of a combination, or [[superposition]], of [[plane wave]]s. It [has some parallels to] the [[Huygens–Fresnel principle]], in which the [[wavefront]] is regarded as being made up of a combination of [[spherical wavefront]]s whose sum is [the wavefront being studied]. A [key difference] is that Fourier optics considers the plane waves to be [[natural mode]]s of the [[propagation medium]], as opposed to Huygens–Fresnel, where the spherical waves originate in the [[physical medium]].
210314-22:05
    - A [[curved phasefront]] may be synthesized from [an infinite number of] these "natural modes" i.e., from [[plane wave phasefront]]s [oriented in different directions in space]. Far from its sources, an [[expanding spherical wave]] is [[locally tangent]] to 局部相切 a [[planar phase front]] (a single plane wave out of the [[infinite spectrum]]), which is [[transverse]] to the [[radial direction]] of propagation. In this case, a Fraunhofer diffraction pattern is created, which emanates from a single spherical wave phase center. In the near field, no single well-defined spherical wave phase center exists, so the wavefront isn't locally tangent to a spherical ball. In this case, a Fresnel diffraction pattern would be created, which emanates from an extended source, consisting of a distribution of (physically identifiable) spherical wave sources in space. In the near field, a full spectrum of plane waves is necessary to represent the Fresnel near-field wave, even locally. A "wide" wave moving forward (like an expanding ocean wave coming toward the shore) can be regarded as an infinite number of "plane wave modes", all of which could (when they collide with something in the way) scatter independently of one other. These mathematical simplifications and calculations are the realm of Fourier analysis and synthesis – together, they can describe what happens when light passes through various slits, lenses or mirrors curved one way or the other, or is fully or partially reflected.
- Fourier optics [forms much of the theory] behind [[image processing]] techniques, as well as finding applications where [information needs to be extracted from]([[extract information]]) [[optical source]]s such as in [[quantum optics]]. To put it in [a slightly more complex way], similar to [the concept of frequency and time] used in [traditional Fourier transform theory], Fourier optics makes use of the [[spatial frequency domain]] (kx, ky) as the [[conjugate]] of the [[spatial domain]] (x, y). [Terms and concepts] such as transform theory, spectrum, bandwidth, window functions and sampling from one-dimensional signal processing are commonly used.
210314-23:00
- ## [Propagation of light]([[light propagation]]) in [[homogeneous media]], [[source-free media]]
    - Light can be described as [a waveform propagating through] [[free space]] ([[vacuum]]) or a [[material medium]] (such as air or glass). Mathematically, the (real valued) [[amplitude]] of one [[wave component]] is represented by a [[scalar wave function]] __u__ that [depends on both space and time]: $$u=u(\mathbf {r} ,t)$$ #mathbf
        - where $$\mathbf {r} =(x,y,z)$$ represents position in [[three dimensional space]], and __t__ represents time.
