- ## [HovaCAL®](https://hovacal.de/en/hovacal/) [CALIBRATION GAS GENERATOR]
    - HovaCAL® – the allrounder
    - __HovaCAL®__ stands for [Hot-Vapor-Calibration] and is used to produce precise [[gas-vapor mixture]]s for checking [[gas analyser]]s and [gas metering systems](((a7vK2Kjqj))). Using the __HovaPOR__ special [evaporator technology], __HovaCAL®__ can evaporate and mix with [[carrier gas]] not only water, acids and alkalines, such as HCl, NH3, HF and HgCl2 but also [[organic solution]]s, continuously and without pulsations. 脉动
210814-19:40
    - __HovaCAL® __[works according to the principle [of] continuous dosing] and [dynamic evaporation of liquid] and [mixing in of carrier gas]. [The concentration of the gas-vapor mixture]([[concentration]]) is determined through the [precise dosing of liquid and gas], as well as [[complete evaporation]] in the __HovaPOR__ [[evaporator]].
    - __HovaCAL®__ is available in different versions, [depending on the application] and [purpose of use]. For mobile use in [[emission monitoring]], __HovaCAL®__ consists, for example, of a supply unit and the evaporator. The supply unit is used to [dose liquid and gas](((ly-0aUKQs))), as well as [control and monitor the temperature] of the evaporator. [[mass flow meter]]s and controllers are used to [dose the medium]. The [liquid flow rate]([[flow rate]]) can also be [controlled gravimetrically] or volumetrically.
210814-19:51
    - The __HovaPOR __evaporator is connected to the supply unit by lines for carrier gas, liquid and electricity to the supply unit and can therefore be set up or installed separately from it. The outlet of the evaporator can be connected to a heated pipe or directly to the gas analyser or sampling system. The accuracy and reproducibility of the resulting gas-vapor mixture are ensured by a high-precision gas mass flow controller and liquid dosing pump. And when it comes to operation, there's the easy-to-use __viewCAL__ software.
- # HovaCal Digital 211-MF Operating Instructions
