- In quantum mechanics, identical particles (also called indistinguishable or indiscernible particles) 不可识别 are particles that cannot be [distinguished from one another], even in principle. Species of identical particles include, but are not limited to, [[elementary particle]]s (such as electrons), composite [[subatomic particle]]s (such as [[atomic nuclei]]), as well as atoms and molecules. [[quasiparticle]]s [also behave in this way]. Although [all known indistinguishable particles] only exist at the [[quantum scale]], [there is no exhaustive list of] [all possible sorts of] particles nor [a clear-cut limit of applicability](((7FoQpbZ6I))), 明确限制 as explored in [[quantum statistics]].
220219-01:53
    - [There are two main categories of] identical particles: [[boson]]s, which can share [[quantum state]]s, and [[fermion]]s, which cannot (as described by the [[Pauli exclusion principle]]). Examples of bosons are photons, gluons, phonons, [[helium-4 nuclei]] and all [[meson]]s. Examples of fermions are electrons, neutrinos, quarks, protons, neutrons, and helium-3 nuclei.
    - [The fact that] [particles can be identical] [has important consequences in] [[statistical mechanics]], where calculations rely on [[probabilistic argument]]s, which are [[sensitive]] to whether or not [the objects being studied] are identical. As a result, identical particles exhibit [markedly different] [[statistical behaviour]] from [distinguishable particles]. For example, [the indistinguishability of particles] [has been proposed as a solution to] [[Gibbs' mixing paradox]].
220219-02:19
    - [同種粒子]は[原理的に区別することができない](Genri-tekini kubetsusuru)粒子のことである。同種粒子に含まれるものとして、電子などの[素粒子]や、[原子や分子などの][複合粒子]がある[1](((TYwaLTO1F)))。
        - [粒子が区別できない][という事実は]、[統計力学]に[重要な影響を与える]。[統計力学の計算では][確率が大きく関係しており]、[確率は考えている](kakuritsu, probability)対象が区別できるかどうかで[決定的な違いが現れる]。その結果、同種粒子は区別できる粒子とは[大きく異なる統計的振る舞いを示す]。その例がギブズのパラドックスである。
220219-12:54
- Distinguishing between particles
    - [There are two methods for] [distinguishing between particles]. The first method [relies on differences in] the [intrinsic physical properties]([[intrinsic property]]) of the particles, such as mass, electric charge, and spin. If differences exist, [it is possible to distinguish between] the particles by [measuring the relevant properties]. However, [it is an empirical fact that] [microscopic particles] of the [same species] [have completely equivalent physical properties]. For instance, [every electron in the universe] [has exactly the same electric charge]; this is why [it is possible to speak of such a thing as] "the charge of the electron".
220219-10:08
    - Even if the particles have equivalent physical properties, [there remains a second method for] distinguishing between particles, which is to [track the trajectory of](((b00x-cUhS))) each particle. As long as the position of each particle can be measured [with infinite precision](((QDTGANrfP))) (even when the particles collide), then [there would be no ambiguity about] [which particle is which].
    - [The problem with the second approach] is that it [contradicts the principles of] quantum mechanics. According to quantum theory, the particles [do not possess definite positions]([[definite position]]) [during the periods between measurements]. Instead, they are governed by [[wavefunction]]s that [give the probability of] [finding a particle at each position]. As time passes, the wavefunctions [tend to spread out and overlap]. Once this happens, it becomes impossible to determine, in a subsequent measurement, which of [the particle positions] [correspond to those measured earlier]. [The particles are then said to be] indistinguishable.
220219-10:14
- ## Quantum mechanical description
    - ### Symmetrical and antisymmetrical states
        - [What follows is an example to] [make the above discussion concrete], [using the formalism developed in] the article on the [[mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics]].
        - Let n denote a [[complete set]] of (discrete) [[quantum number]]s for [specifying single-particle states] (for example, for the [[particle in a box]] problem, take n to be the [[quantized wave vector]] of the wavefunction.) For simplicity, [consider a system composed of] two particles that are [not interacting with each other]. [Suppose that] one particle is in the state n1, and the other is in the state n2. 
            - Intuitively, [the quantum state of the system]([[quantum state]]) is written as $${\displaystyle |n_{1}\rangle |n_{2}\rangle }$$ where [the state writing order] matters such as [the firstly written state] is for the particle 1 and the secondly written state is for the particle 2 (so, if $${\displaystyle |n_{2}\rangle |n_{1}\rangle }$$, then the particle 1 [occupies the state] n2 while the particle 2 occupies the state n1). This is simply the [canonical way] of 标准方法 [constructing a basis for]([[basis]]) a [[tensor product space]] $$H\otimes H$$ of the [combined system] [from the individual spaces]. 
            - [This expression is valid for] distinguishable particles, however, [it is not appropriate for] indistinguishable particles since {\displaystyle |n_{1}\rangle |n_{2}\rangle }{\displaystyle |n_{1}\rangle |n_{2}\rangle } and {\displaystyle |n_{2}\rangle |n_{1}\rangle }{\displaystyle |n_{2}\rangle |n_{1}\rangle } as a result of [exchanging the particles] are [generally different states].

"the particle 1 occupies the n1 state and the particle 2 occupies the n2 state" ≠ "the particle 1 occupies the n2 state and the particle 2 occupies the n1 state".
220219-10:37, 12:20
    - ### Statistical properties of bosons and fermions
        - [There are important differences between] the [[statistical behavior]] of [[boson]]s and [[fermion]]s, which are described by [[Bose–Einstein statistics]] and [[Fermi–Dirac statistics]] respectively. Roughly speaking, bosons [have a tendency to] [clump into the same quantum state], which [underlies phenomena such as] the [[laser]], [[Bose–Einstein condensation]], and [[superfluidity]]. 
            - Fermions, on the other hand, are forbidden from [sharing quantum states], [giving rise to systems such as] the [[Fermi gas]]. This is known as the [[Pauli exclusion principle]], and is responsible for [much of chemistry], since the electrons in an atom (fermions) [successively fill the many states within shells] rather than [all lying in the same lowest energy state].
220219-12:26
        - The differences between the statistical behavior of fermions, bosons, and distinguishable particles can be illustrated [using a system of two particles]. The particles are designated A and B. Each particle can [exist in two possible states], labelled $$|0\rangle$$ and $$|1\rangle$$, which have the [same energy].
- Footnotes
    - [1]: ["2.3 Identical particles"](http://www.tcm.phy.cam.ac.uk/~pdh1001/thesis/node14.html).
    - [2]: Tuckerman, Mark (2010), __Statistical Mechanics__, [ISBN] [978-0198525264](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0198525264)
    - [3]: Liboff, Richard (2003). __Introductory Quantum Mechanics__. Addison-Wesley. p. 597. [ISBN] [978-0805387148](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0805387148).
    - [4]: Bach, Alexaner (1993). "Classification of Indistinguishable Particles". __[Europhysics Letters]__. **21** (5): 515–520. [Bibcode]:[1993EL.....21..515B](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1993EL.....21..515B). [doi]:[10.1209/0295-5075/21/5/002](https://doi.org/10.1209%2F0295-5075%2F21%2F5%2F002).
    - [1]: Griffiths, David J. Introduction to Quantum Mechanics 2. Prentice Hall. 2004. [ISBN 0-13-111892-7](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:%E7%BD%91%E7%BB%9C%E4%B9%A6%E6%BA%90/0-13-111892-7).
    - [2]: Styer, Daniel. [Common misconceptions regarding quantum mechanics](http://www.oberlin.edu/physics/dstyer/TeachQM/misconnzz.pdf) (PDF). : 4–5 [2008-10-02]. （原始内容[存档](https://web.archive.org/web/20201112041709/https://www2.oberlin.edu/physics/dstyer/TeachQM/misconnzz.pdf) (PDF)于2020-11-12）. [这篇文章谈到]学习[全同粒子][容易犯的错误]。
    - [1]: 同種複合粒子の定義は「何を複合粒子とするか」による。なぜなら複合粒子は素粒子より[も多くの内部自由度]（量子数など）があるからである。例えば、原子エネルギー準位間の遷移を無視し、[原子の基底状態]のような[特定の状態だけを考えた場合]、[複数の基底状態の原子](Fukusūno kitei jōtai no genshi)は同種で区別できない。
    - [2]: 清水明『新版 量子論の基礎―その本質の[やさしい理解のために]―』サイエンス社、2004年。ISBN 4-7819-1062-9。
    - [3]: 田崎晴明『統計力学I』培風館、2008年。ISBN 4563024376。
- External links
    - [Exchange of Identical and Possibly Indistinguishable Particles](http://www.av8n.com/physics/exchange.htm) by John S. Denker
    - [Identity and Individuality in Quantum Theory](http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/qt-idind/) ([Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy])
    - [Many-Electron States](http://www.cond-mat.de/events/correl13/manuscripts/koch.pdf) in E. Pavarini, E. Koch, and U. Schollwöck: [Emergent Phenomena](((m8lr20MZz))) in [[correlated matter]], Jülich 2013, [ISBN] [978-3-89336-884-6](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-3-89336-884-6)
220219-12:45
