- [The Japanese invasions of Korea of 1592–1598] or Imjin War [involved two separate yet linked] invasions: [an initial invasion] in 1592 (Imjin Disturbance), a brief [[truce]] in 1596, and a second invasion in 1597 (Chongyu War). [The conflict ended in] 1598 [with the withdrawal of Japanese forces][1][21] from the Korean Peninsula after [a military stalemate][22] in [Korea's southern provinces].[23] 僵持
220305-23:35
    - The invasions were launched by [[丰臣秀吉 (Toyotomi Hideyoshi)]] [with the intent of] conquering the Korean Peninsula and China, which were [respectively ruled by] the Joseon and Ming dynasties. Japan [quickly succeeded in] [occupying large portions of] the Korean Peninsula, but [the contribution of reinforcements by] the Ming,[24][25][26] 增援 as well as [the disruption of Japanese supply fleets] [along the western and southern coasts] by the [Joseon navy],[27][28][29][30] (commanded by Yi Sun-sin) [forced a withdrawal of Japanese forces] from Pyongyang and the northern provinces to the south in Busan and [nearby regions]. 
        - Afterwards, with [righteous armies] (Joseon [civilian militias])[31] launching guerrilla warfare against the Japanese and supply difficulties hampering both sides, neither were able to mount a successful offensive or gain any additional territory, resulting in a military stalemate. The first phase of the invasion lasted from 1592 until 1596, and was followed by ultimately unsuccessful peace negotiations between Japan and the Ming between 1596 and 1597.
    - In 1597, Japan renewed its offensive by invading Korea a second time. The pattern of the second invasion largely mirrored that of the first. The Japanese had initial successes on land, capturing several cities and fortresses, only to be halted and forced to withdraw to the southern coastal regions of the peninsula. However, the pursuing Ming and Joseon forces were unable to dislodge the Japanese from their remaining fortresses and entrenched positions in the southern coastal areas,[32][33][34] where both sides again became locked in a ten-month long military stalemate.
    - With Toyotomi Hideyoshi's death in 1598, limited progress on land, and continued disruption of supply lines by the Joseon navy, Japanese forces in Korea were ordered to withdraw back to Japan by the new governing Council of Five Elders. Final peace negotiations between the parties followed afterwards and continued for several years, ultimately resulting in the normalization of relations.[35]
