- [[FTIR gas analyzer]]
- An infrared gas analyzer measures [[trace gas]]es by [determining the absorption of] an [emitted infrared light source] through a certain [[air sample]]. Trace gases [found in the Earth's atmosphere] [become excited] [under specific wavelengths] found [in the infrared range]. [The concept behind the technology] [can be understood as] testing [how much of the light] is [absorbed by the air]. [Different molecules in the air] absorb [different frequencies of light]. Air with much of a certain gas will absorb more of a certain frequency, allowing the sensor to report a high concentration of the corresponding molecule.
    - Infrared gas analyzers usually have two chambers, one is a [[reference chamber]] while the other chamber is a [[measurement chamber]]. Infrared light is [emitted from some type of source] [on one end of the chamber], [passes through a series of chambers] that [contains given quantities of] the various gases in question.
211119-05:30
- The latest Infrared Gas Analyzers
    - Like earlier infrared gas analyzers, [modern analyzers] also use [nondispersive infrared technology] to detect a certain gas by detecting the absorption of infrared wavelengths that is characteristic of that gas. Infrared energy is emitted from a [heated filament](((ciP2cjrZq))). By [optically filtering the energy]([[optical filter]]), the radiation spectrum is limited to the absorption band of the gas being measured. A detector measures the energy after the infrared energy has passed through the gas to be measured. This is compared to the energy at reference condition of no absorption.
    - Many analyzers are wall-mounted devices intended for long-term, unattended gas monitoring. There are now analysers that measure a range of gases and are highly portable to be suitable for a wider range of geoscience applications. Fast response high-precision analyzers are widely used to measure gas emissions and ecosystem fluxes using eddy covariance method when used together with fast-response sonic anemometer.
    - In some analyzers, the reliability of measurements is enhanced by calibrating the analyzer at the reference condition and a known span concentration. If the air would interfere with measurements, the chamber that houses the energy source is filled with a gas that has no detectable concentration of the gas being measured. Depending on the gas being measured, fresh air, chemically stripped air or nitrogen may be used.
