- The [[motion system]] of the [[interferometer]] is probably the most important (and most interesting) subsystem of a Fourier-transform spectrometer. It is essential to understand how errors generated in the interferometer’s motion system affect the output spectra. It is the goal of this chapter to portray the links between them.
- In any real motion system, “erroneous” motion is unavoidable. Its characteristics and magnitude depend largely on the quality of its mechanical drive components and the design of the overall motion system. Ultimately, the achievable spectral SNR can easily be limited by this subsystem. Figure 4.1 shows three 100% lines from three different mirrors’ drive subsystems, having different motion qualities. It can be seen that [[spectral SNR]] [can be extremely low] when the [[motion quality]] is poor. Here, motion “quality” refers to the [[proximity]] of [the path of the actual motion] to [an ideal one]. The [ideal motion system] in an interferometer has motion [in only one degree of freedom]([[degrees of freedom (DoF)]]), which is [in the direction of the OPD]([[optical path difference (OPD)]]).
220415-09:32
- 4.1 Error Characteristics
    - There are two types of [[tilt error]]s: static and dynamic. [Static-angular error] refers to [a constant tilt] [throughout the mirror’s travel] and [between scans]. In this case, the measured spectrum slightly deviates from the “true” spectrum, but is repeatable from measurement to measurement. Thus, the SNR is not affected; the mirror angle can simply be readjusted to provide the maximum modulated signal (indicating optimum alignment). However, serious care should be taken if the interferometer constantly loses alignment over time (hours or days). This usually indicates loose and improper mechanical mountings. Microadjustment screw assemblies often found in microadjustable mirror mounts contain springs that can potentially push the mirror out of alignment if they are not properly locked.
- 4.2 Interferogram-Modulation Error
    - The effects of the [[static tilt]] to [[broadband radiation]]: For a [[broadband source]], the spectrum is not only [reduced in magnitude], but [its shape is also deformed]. This is because the [[phase mismatch]] is [a function of the wavelength], with the [[shorter wavelengths]] [affected to a greater degree]. This phenomenon is illustrated in Fig. 4.9. This implies that an FT spectrometer covering shorter wavelengths such as the visible or the ultraviolet requires a more demanding mirror-drive quality than a longer-wavelength FT spectrometer. Note also that for a given mirror tilt, the phase mismatch is proportional to the beam diameter. Thus, reducing the beam diameter increases the spectral SNR for drive-error-limited instruments.
220415-09:41
- 4.3 Interferogram Sampling Error
    - Mirror tilts cause data-sampling error if the signal used to “clock” the data acquisition is not perfectly in line with the broadband beam. Detailed analyses of the causes and the effects of sampling error are given in Chapter 6. However, it seems appropriate to introduce the subject here because sampling error may be closely related to the interferometer alignment error, the topic of this chapter.
    - If the interferometer design is inappropriate, the spectral degradation caused by the sampling error may be much greater than the degradation caused by the phase error, as discussed in the previous section. Minimizing or if possible eliminating the offset distance such as the one in Fig. 4.11 is desirable. In reality, many scans are often performed and the interferograms are averaged. This averaging technique tends to improve SNR.
    - It is important to distinguish once again the difference between dynamic error and static error. If the moving mirror has large but repeatable angular errors, the spectra are repeatable (a high SNR), although they differ from the “true” spectrum.
- References
    - T. Hirschfeld, “[Quantitative FT-IR]: [a detailed look at] [the problems involved],” __Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy: Applications to [Chemical Systems]__, 2 , pp. 193–242, Academic Press, New York (1979).
