- If more gently than Orpheus
who moved even the trees
you were to pluck the zither
the life-blood would not return
to the vain shadow . . .
Harsh fate,
but its burden becomes lighter
to bear, since everything
that attempts to turn back
is impossible. (I, 24) / 因为一切回头的尝试 都是徒劳
- [Past and future] are [different from each other]. [Cause precedes effect](((nvbzShJny))). Pain comes after a wound, not before it. The glass [shatters into a thousand pieces], and the pieces [do not re-form into a glass]. We cannot [change the past](((F7OVQ6hnu))); we can have regrets, remorse, memories. The future instead is uncertainty, desire, anxiety, open space, destiny, perhaps. We can live toward it, shape it, because it [does not yet exist]. Everything is still possible. . . . Time is not a line [with two equal directions]: it is an arrow [with different extremities]. #[[time arrow]]
211205-23:27
    - And it is this, rather than [the speed of its passing], that [matters most to us] about time. This is [the fundamental thing about] time. [The secret of time lies in] this slippage that we feel on our pulse, viscerally, in the enigma of memory, in anxiety about the future. 内心的脉搏滑动 This is what it means to think about time. What exactly is this flowing? Where is it nestled in [the grammar of the world]? What distinguishes the past, its having been, from the future, its not having been yet, in the folds of [the mechanism of the world]? Why, to us, is the past so different from the future?
    - [Nineteenth- and twentieth-century] physics [engaged with these questions] and [ran into something unexpected and disconcerting]—much more so than [the relatively marginal fact] that time passes at different speeds in different places. The difference between past and future, between [cause and effect](((axQMCf1xH))), between memory and hope, between regret and intention . . . [in the elementary laws] that [describe the mechanisms of the world], there is no such difference.
- ### HEAT
    - If I [watch a film] that [shows a ball rolling], [I cannot tell] if the film is [being projected correctly or in reverse]. But if [the ball stops], I know that [it is being run properly]; run backward, it would [show an implausible event]: a ball [starting to move by itself]. The ball’s slowing down and [coming to rest] are due to [[friction]], and [friction produces heat](((9w_f1-t-W))). [Only where there is heat]([[heat]]) is there a [distinction between past and future]. ^^Thoughts, for instance, unfold from the past to the future, not vice versa—and, in fact, thinking [produces heat in our heads]^^. . . .
(思考过程在大脑中产生了热量，正是热量的产生使得思考前后的过去与未来可以被区分开来)
211206-02:45
    - [[Rudolf Clausius]] [introduces a quantity] that measures [this irreversible progress of heat] [in only one direction] and, since he was [a cultivated German], 很有学识的 he [gives it a name taken from] [ancient Greek]—[[entropy]]:
        - I prefer to [take the names of] [important scientific quantities] from [ancient languages], so that they [may be the same] [in all the living languages]. I therefore propose to call entropy the quantity (S) of a body, from the Greek word for [[transformation]]: ἡ τροπὴ. 14
        - The page of the article by Clausius in which he [introduces for the first time] [the concept and the word] “entropy.” [The equation provides] the [mathematical definition] of [the variation of entropy] (S—S 0 ) of a body: [the sum (integral) of the quantity of heat] dQ [leaving the body] [at the temperature T].
211206-02:53
        - [14]: Rudolf Clausius, “Über verschiedene für die Anwendung bequeme Formen der Hauptgleichungen der mechanischen Wärmetheorie,” __Annalen der Physik__ 125 (1865): 353–400; 390.
- ### BLUR
    - This is what [[Ludwig Boltzmann]] understood. [The difference between past and future] [does not lie in] [the elementary laws of motion]; [it does not reside in] [the deep grammar of nature]. It is the [natural disordering](((utO5o-z5C))) that [leads to gradually less particular], less special situations.
        - It was a brilliant intuition, and a correct one. [But does it clarify] the difference between past and future? It does not. It just [shifts the question]. The question [now becomes]: why, in one of the two directions of time—the one we call past—were things more ordered? Why was [the great pack of cards of the universe] in order in the past? Why, in the past, was entropy lower?
(过去-低熵态-更有序)
        - If we [observe a phenomenon] that [begins in a state of lower entropy](((EgpOtwfcX))), [it is clear why] entropy increases—because in the process of reshuffling, everything becomes disordered. But why do [the phenomena that we observe around us] [in the cosmos] begin in a state of lower entropy [in the first place]?
211206-03:04
    - It follows that the notion of [certain configurations] [being more particular than others] ([twenty-six red cards] followed by twenty-six black, for example) [makes sense only if] [I limit myself to] [noticing only certain aspects of] the cards (in this case, the colors). If I distinguish between all the cards, the configurations are all equivalent: [none of them] is [more or less particular than others]. 18 The notion of “particularity” is born [only at the moment] we begin to [see the universe] [in a blurred and approximate way].
        - Boltzmann has shown that [entropy exists because] we [describe the world] [in a blurred fashion]. He has demonstrated that entropy is [precisely the quantity that counts] [how many are the different configurations that] our [blurred vision] [does not distinguish between]. Heat, entropy, and [the lower entropy of the past] are [notions that belong to] an approximate, [statistical description] of nature.
211206-04:20
        - [18]: The definition of entropy [requires a coarse graining]([[coarse graining]]), that is to say, the distinction between [[microstate]]s and [[macrostate]]s. The entropy of a macrostate is determined by [the number of corresponding microstates]. In [[classic thermodynamics]], the coarse graining is defined the moment it is decided to [treat some variables of the system as] “manipulable” 可操作的 or “measurable” from outside (the volume or pressure of a gas, for instance). A macrostate is determined by [fixing these macroscopic variables].
    - The difference between past and future is [deeply linked to] this blurring. . . . So if I could [take into account] [all the details of] the exact, [microscopic state] of the world, would [the characteristic aspects of] the flowing of time disappear?
        - Yes. If I observe the microscopic state of things, then the difference between past and future vanishes. The future of the world, for instance, is determined by its [present state] —though neither more nor less than is the past. 19 We often say that [causes precede effects] and yet, in the elementary grammar of things, [there is no distinction between] “cause” and “effect.”* There are regularities, 规律 [represented by what we call] [[physical law]]s, that [link events of] [different times], but they are [symmetric between] future and past. In a microscopic description, [there can be no sense in] which the past is different from the future.*
            - [19]: That is to say, [in a deterministic manner](((GwFqzNMtk))) if you overlook quantum mechanics, and [in a probabilistic manner](((1G-_MOIj_))) if you take account of quantum mechanics instead. In both cases, [in the same way] for the future as for the past.
(过去或未来的一切状态都是由当前的全部微观状态所决定的)
211206-04:30
            - * There are [a few more details] [given on this point] in chapter 11.
            - * [The point is not that] what happens to [a cold teaspoon] [in a cup of hot tea] depends on [whether I have a blurred vision of it or not]. What happens to the spoon and to its molecules as well, obviously, [does not depend on] [how I view it]. It just happens, regardless. The point is that the description in terms of heat, temperature, and [the passage of heat from] tea to spoon is [a blurred vision of what happens], and that [it is only in this blurred vision that] [a startling difference between] past and future appears. 
(事件总是在发生，但如果我们不采用一种模糊的视角来观察事件，我们就无法区分事件间的过去和未来-对于微观态而言，不存在因果之分，粗粒化处理后才出现区分)
211207-04:40
        - This is the [disconcerting conclusion] that [emerges from Boltzmann’s work]: the difference between the past and the future refers only to [our own blurred vision of the world]. [It’s a conclusion that] [leaves us flabbergasted]: [is it really possible that] a perception so vivid, basic, existential—my perception of [the passage of time]—[depends on the fact that] I cannot [apprehend the world] [in all of its minute detail]? On [a kind of distortion] that’s [produced by myopia]? 近视眼 
            - Is it true that, [if I could see exactly] and [take into consideration] the actual dance of [millions of molecules], then the future would be [“just like” the past]? [Is it possible that] I [have as much knowledge of the past]—or [[ignorance]] of it—as I do of the future? [Even allowing for the fact that] [our perceptions of the world] are [frequently wrong], can the world [really be so profoundly different from] our perception of it as this? #pt9-100
(对过去和未来的知识/无知程度之间的区别)
211208-22:33
            - All this [undermines the very basis of] [our usual way of] [understanding time]. It provokes incredulity, just as much as the discovery of [the movement of the Earth] did. But just as with the movement of the Earth, the evidence is overwhelming: [all the phenomena that] [characterize the flowing of time] are [reduced to a “particular” state] [in the world’s past], the “[[particularity]]” of which may be attributed to [the blurring of our perspective].
(我们对于世界的模糊的观察视野带来了关于过去的特殊性/特定状态)
            - Later on, [I will delve into] [the mystery of this blurring], to see [how it is tied to] [the strange initial improbability of the universe]. For now, [I will end with] [the mind-boggling fact that] [[entropy]], as Boltzmann [fully understood], [is nothing other than] [the number of microscopic states] that our blurred vision of the world [fails to distinguish].
211208-22:47
