- [Sunday, December 16, 2007](http://takingnotenow.blogspot.com/2007/12/luhmanns-zettelkasten.html)
- [Index cards]([[index card]]) [played a large role in] research [during the last century] -- the 20th century, that is. And there is still [a great deal of interest] in using index cards [as a means for] [organizing one's]([[organizing knowledge]]) [[daily life]]. 
    - See, for instance, [Index Cards](http://wiki.43folders.com/index.php/Index_Cards), [More Index Cards](http://www.43folders.com/topics/index-cards), [Photos](http://www.flickr.com/photos/hawkexpress/sets/72157594200490122/), or any number of other sites that are fascinated by paper or "[[analog device]]s," as they are sometimes referred to by [[geek]]s in this time when [[electronic device]]s [take over more and more of our lives]. #[[Flickr]]
    - But index cards clearly also were the model for important [early programs] intended for what is by some called with the [unfortunate phrase] "[[personal knowledge management (PKM)]]" today. 
        - I mean such programs as [NoteCard], [HyperCard], and their [successors], which began from the index- or [note-card metaphor].
        - One of the [more interesting systems] for keeping such index cards was [developed by] the [German sociologist]([[sociologist]]) [[Niklas Luhmann]] (1927-1998). 
            - [I have no great interest in] his [theory]. [I am fascinated by his method of] [keeping notes], and will therefore [restrict my comments to this aspect] of his work. But if you are interested, you can visit [Niklas Luhmann](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niklas_Luhmann) for a [short introduction] to his theory. Clearly, his [index-card-system] and his [[sociological theory]] are connected in interesting, [intricate](((Gp4OnHV2M))), and [not easily understood ways], but I will forgo investigating these for now.
                - [If you would like to] see a video of Luhmann, explaining [the intricacies of his system], go to [Luhmann on Zettelkasten](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tu3t_zzHJJs) #[[YouTube]]
            - One of the things that made his [[Zettelkasten]] or [[slip box]] (or [note card file]) so intriguing to the [larger public] ([German]) was a 1981 paper, [entitled] "Kommunikation mit Zettelkästen. Ein Erfahrungsbericht" (Communication with [Index Card Systems]. An [[empirical account]]. It appeared in Niklas Luhmann, Universität als Milieu. Kleine Schriften. hrsg. von André Kieserling. [Bielefeld]: Verlag Cordula Haux, 1992.) 
            - Luhmann claimed that his file [was something of] a [[collaborator]] in his work, a largely [independent partner] in his [research and writing]. [It might have started out] [as a mere apprentice] when Luhmann was still [studying himself] (in 1951), but after thirty years of having been [fed information] by the [human collaborator] it had [acquired the ability] of [surprising him again an again]. Since the ability of [genuinely surprising one another](((-r02293Cl))) is an [essential characteristic] of [genuine communication], [he argued that] there was [actually communication] [going on between] himself and [his partner] [in theory]. 
220102-20:35
                - mere: jinjin33, zhibuguo324'; apprentice: xuetu22'
                - www.[fabiao].net; lan4!
                    - [Referential questions] 参阅式 have no one [specific answer], and are therefore used to instigate genuine communication. 
                    - Caring is the way that may deliver people from loneliness, for in it new [interpersonal relationship] is built, which makes genuine communication possible. 真诚的
                    - Thus the [mutual understanding] and [mutual respect] can be generated and the genuine communication [between men and women] can be achieved. 
                    - Not only that, only through [the retaining of foreignness] 异质 can there be genuine communication, without which the two parties can neither really understand each other nor themselves. 
                - Luhmann also described his system as his [secondary memory]([[second brain]]) (Zweitgedächtnis), [[alter ego]], or his [reading memory] or (Lesegedächtnis).
            - Luhmann's [notecard system] is different from that of others because of the way he [organized the information]([[organizing knowledge]]), intending it not just for the [next paper] or the [next book], as most other [researchers] did, [but for a life-time of] [working and publishing]. 
                - [He thus rejected] the mere [[alphabetical organisation]] of the material just as much as the [[systematic arrangement]] in accordance with [fixed categories]([[category]]), like that of the [[Dewey decimal system]], [for instance]. 
220102-21:05
                    - Instead, he [opted for an approach] that was "[thematically unlimited](((WaWAd2PKA)))," or is limited [only insofar as it limits itself].
                    - Instead, he opted for [organisation by numbers]. [Every slip] would [receive a number], independently of the information on it, starting with 1, and potentially [continuing to infinity]. Since his slips were [relatively small] (slightly larger than [5 x 8 cards], or [Din-A 6], [to be precise]), he often had to continue on other slips the information or [train of thought] [started on one slip]. In this way, he would end up with [Numbers] like 1/1 and 1/2 and 1/3 etc. He [wrote these numbers] in [black ink] [at the top of the slip], so that they could [easily be seen] when a slip was removed and then [put back in the file].
220102-21:15
                        - Apart from such [[linear continuation]]s of [topics on different slips], Luhmann also introduced a [notation] for [branchings of topics](((3injlVoDf))). Thus, when he felt that a [certain term] needed to be [further discussed]([[further discussion]]) or [the information about it] needed to be [supplemented]([[supplemented information]]), he would begin a [new slip] that [addded a letter], like a, b, or c to the number. So, a branching from slip 1/6 could have [branches] like 1/6a or 1/6b, up to 1/6z.
220102-21:37
                            - These [branching connections] were [marked by red numbers] [within the text], [close to the place] that needed [further explanation](((pDrXYkbJX))) or information. Since any of these branches might [require further continuations], he also had many slips of the form 1/6a1, 1/6a2, etc. And, of course, any of these continuations can be [branched again], so he could end up with such a number as: 
21/3d26g53 for -- who else? -- Habermas.
                        - These [[internal branching]]s can [continue ad infinitum] -- [at least potentially]. This is one of [the advantages of the system]. But there are others: 
