- [[microcontroller chip]]
- [[microcontroller unit (MCU)]]
- [[processor]]; [[computer processor]]
- ---
- A microcontroller (MCU for [[microcontroller unit (MCU)]]) is a [[small computer]] on a single metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) [[MOS integrated circuit]] (IC) chip. A microcontroller contains one or more [[CPU (central processing unit)]]s ([[processor core]]s) along with [[computer memory]] and programmable [[input/output peripheral device]]s. [[program memory]] in the form of [[ferroelectric RAM]], NOR flash or OTP ROM is also often included on chip, as well as [a small amount of RAM]. Microcontrollers are designed for [[embedded application]]s, in contrast to the [[microprocessor]]s used in [[personal computer (PC)]]s or other [general purpose applications] consisting of various [discrete chips]. #[[flash memory]]
(微处理器一般用于个人电脑及其他通用设备中，微控制器则用于嵌入式设备中)
210621-00:01
- In modern terminology, a microcontroller is similar to, but less sophisticated than, a system on a chip (SoC). An SoC may include a microcontroller as one of its components, but usually integrates it with advanced peripherals like a graphics processing unit (GPU), a Wi-Fi module, or one or more coprocessors.
- Microcontrollers are used in automatically controlled products and devices, such as automobile engine control systems, implantable medical devices, remote controls, office machines, appliances, power tools, toys and other embedded systems. By reducing the size and cost compared to a design that uses a separate microprocessor, memory, and input/output devices, microcontrollers make it economical to digitally control even more devices and processes. Mixed signal microcontrollers are common, integrating analog components needed to control non-digital electronic systems. In the context of the internet of things, microcontrollers are an economical and popular means of data collection, sensing and actuating the physical world as edge devices.
- Some microcontrollers may use four-bit words and operate at frequencies as low as 4 kHz for low power consumption (single-digit milliwatts or microwatts). They generally have the ability to retain functionality while waiting for an event such as a button press or other interrupt; power consumption while sleeping (CPU clock and most peripherals off) may be just nanowatts, making many of them well suited for long lasting battery applications. Other microcontrollers may serve performance-critical roles, where they may need to act more like a digital signal processor (DSP), with higher clock speeds and power consumption.
