- ### In two dimensions
    - __Main article: __[[reflectional symmetry]]
- ### In three dimensions
    - The concept of reflection [can be extended to] [[three-dimensional object]]s, including the [inside parts], even if they are not [[transparent]]. The term then relates to [structural aspects] as well as [visual aspects]. A three-dimensional object is reversed [in the direction perpendicular to] the mirror surface. In physics, mirror images are [investigated in the subject] called [[geometrical optics]].
        [A symmetrical urn] and its [mirror image](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Mirror.jpg) 瓮, 缸, 坛
    - In chemistry, two versions ([[isomer]]s) of a [[molecule]], one a "mirror image" of the other, are called [[enantiomer]]s if they are not "[[superposable]]" 可叠合, 置于上面 (the correct [[technical term]], though the term "superimposable" is also used) on each other. That is an example of [chirality (chemistry)]([[chirality]]). In general, [an object and its mirror image] are called enantiomorphs. 对映异构体
    - If a point of an object has coordinates (__x__, __y__, __z__) then the image of this point (as reflected by a mirror in the __y__, __z__ plane) has coordinates (-__x__, __y__, __z__). Thus reflection is a reversal of the coordinate axis perpendicular (normal) to the mirror's surface. Although a plane mirror reverses an object only in the direction normal to the mirror surface, there is usually a perception of a left-right reversal. Hence, the reversal is called "lateral inversion". The perception of a left-right reversal is probably because the left and right of an object are defined by its perceived top and front, but there is still some debate about the explanation amongst psychologists. The psychology of the perceived left-right reversal is discussed in "Much ado about mirrors" by Professor Michael Corballis (see "external links", below).
