- A monochromator is an [[optical device]] that transmits a mechanically selectable [[narrow band]] of wavelengths of light or other radiation [chosen from a wider range of wavelengths] available at the input. [The name is from] the [Greek roots] __mono-__, "single", and __chroma__, "colour", and the [Latin suffix] __-ator__, denoting an agent.
- Uses
    - A device that can produce [[monochromatic light]] [has many uses in science and in optics] because [many optical characteristics of a material] are [dependent on wavelength]. [Although there are a number of useful ways to] [select a narrow band of wavelengths] (which, in the [[visible range]], is perceived as a [[pure color]]), [there are not as many other ways to] easily [select any wavelength band from a wide range]([[wavelength band]]). See below for a discussion of some of the uses of monochromators.
    - In hard X-ray and neutron optics, crystal monochromators are used to define wave conditions on the instruments.
- ## Techniques
    - 
- Applications
    - Monochromators are used in many [optical measuring instruments] and [in other applications] where [tunable monochromatic light](((12TTu6kPC))) is wanted. Sometimes the [[monochromatic light]] is [directed at a sample](((NW9GsNYsq))) and [the reflected or transmitted light] is measured. Sometimes [[white light]] is [directed at a sample] and the monochromator is used to [analyze the reflected or transmitted light]. Two monochromators are used in many [[fluorometer]]s; [one monochromator is used to] [select the excitation wavelength] and [a second monochromator is used to] [analyze the emitted light].
211015-09:58
    - An [automatic scanning spectrometer] [includes a mechanism to] [change the wavelength](((Kc9QReRrT))) [selected by the monochromator] and to [record the resulting changes] in the [measured quantity] [as a function of the wavelength].
    - If an [[imaging device]] replaces the [[exit slit]], the result is the [basic configuration] of a [[spectrograph]]. [This configuration allows] the [simultaneous analysis] of the intensities of [a wide band of colors]([[wide band]]). [[photographic film]] or [an array of photodetectors]([[photodetector array]]) can be used, for instance to collect the light. Such an instrument can record a spectral function without mechanical scanning, although there may be tradeoffs in terms of resolution or sensitivity for instance.
211015-10:18
