- An optical module is a typically [[hot-pluggable]] [[optical transceiver]] 热插拔光收发器 used in [[high-bandwidth data communications]] applications. Optical modules typically have an [[electrical interface]] on the side that [connects to the inside of the system] and an [[optical interface]] on the side that [connects to the outside world] through a [[fiber optic cable]]. The [[form factor]] 形状因数 and electrical interface are often [specified by an interested group] using a [[multi-source agreement (MSA)]]. 
210312-20:42
    - Optical modules can either plug into a [[front panel socket]] or an [[on-board socket]]. 插入前面板插座或车载插座 Sometimes the optical module is replaced by an [electrical interface module] that implements either an [[active electrical connection]] or [[passive electrical connection]] to the [[outside world]]. 主动或被动的 A large industry supports [the manufacturing and use of] optical modules.
210312-20:57
- ## Users of Optical Modules
    - [Multiple standards] have used optical modules. Some of these [more prominent standards] are [discussed below]. [下面将讨论][其中一些][比较突出的标准]。
    - InfiniBand (abbreviated IB) is a computer-networking communications standard used in high-performance computing that features very high throughput and very low latency. It is used for data interconnect both among and within computers. InfiniBand is also utilized as either a direct, or switched interconnect between servers and storage systems, as well as an interconnect between storage systems. Infiniband uses optical modules extensively.[14]
    - Fibre Channel (FC) is a high-speed network technology (commonly running at 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, and 128 gigabit per second rates) primarily used to connect computer data storage to servers. Fibre Channel is mainly used in storage area networks (SAN) in commercial data centers. Fibre Channel networks form a switched fabric because they operate in unison as one big switch. Fibre Channel typically runs on optical fiber cables within and between data centers. Fibre Channel uses optical modules extensively.[15]
    - Ethernet is a family of computer networking technologies commonly used in local area networks (LAN), metropolitan area networks (MAN) and wide area networks (WAN). Ethernet uses optical modules extensively in its higher rate interfaces. Representative interfaces that are commonly implemented in optical modules include 100GBASE-SR4, 100GBASE-LR4 and 100GBASE-ER4.
