- air–fuel equivalence ratio
- ---
- An oxygen sensor (or lambda sensor, where lambda refers to [air–fuel equivalence ratio](((W3XLL488j))), 当量比 usually denoted by λ) is an [electronic device] that [measures the proportion of] oxygen (O2) [in the gas or liquid being analysed].
    - It was developed by Robert Bosch GmbH during the late 1960s under the supervision of Dr. Günter Bauman. The original sensing element is made with a thimble-shaped zirconia ceramic coated on both the exhaust and reference sides with a thin layer of platinum and comes in both heated and unheated forms. The planar-style sensor entered the market in 1990 and significantly reduced the mass of the ceramic sensing element, as well as incorporating the heater within the ceramic structure.[1] This resulted in a sensor that started sooner and responded faster.
    - The most common application is to measure the exhaust-gas concentration of oxygen for internal combustion engines in automobiles and other vehicles in order to calculate and, if required, dynamically adjust the air-fuel ratio so that catalytic converters can work optimally, and also determine whether the converter is performing properly or not. An oxygen sensor will typically generate up to about 0.9 volt when the fuel mixture is rich and there is little unburned oxygen in the exhaust.
    - Scientists use oxygen sensors to measure respiration or production of oxygen and use a different approach. Oxygen sensors are used in oxygen analyzers, which find extensive use in medical applications such as anesthesia monitors, respirators and oxygen concentrators.
    - Divers use oxygen sensors (and often call them ppO2 sensors) to measure the partial pressure of oxygen in their breathing gas. Open circuit scuba divers test the gas before diving as the mixture remains unchanged during the dive and partial pressure changes due to pressure are simply predictable, while mixed gas rebreather divers must monitor the partial pressure of oxygen in the breathing loop throughout the dive, as it changes and must be controlled to stay within acceptable bounds.
    - Oxygen sensors are also used in hypoxic air fire prevention systems to continuously monitor the oxygen concentration inside the protected volumes.
    - There are many different ways of measuring oxygen. These include technologies such as zirconia, electrochemical (also known as galvanic), infrared, ultrasonic, paramagnetic, and very recently, laser methods.
- ---
- 氧电池，[这里特指][医用氧电池]，又称氧气传感器、氧浓度传感器、氧气单元、氧探头、氧电极等，采用[电化学原理]。
    - [主要功能是]用于测量[混合气体]的[氧浓度]，测量范围为：0 %～100% 氧浓度，在[恒定工作压力]和恒定温度条件下，氧电池产生的[电压值]与氧浓度[成正比关系]，每个氧电池的[输出电压][在整个寿命期内][基本上是稳定的]。当测量到的氧浓度值与[设置的氧浓度值][偏差较大时]，机器将发出[报警提示]，这时可以对其进行[定标校准]，若仍然偏差较大，一般都是[氧电池耗尽]，需[更换氧电池]，一般氧电池[使用寿命]约1~3年。
