- Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous is an [[isometric role-playing game]] developed by [Russian studio] [[Owlcat Games]] and published by [[Deep Silver]], based on [[Paizo Publishing]]'s Pathfinder franchise. Announced through a [Kickstarter campaign](((-eplCK30C))) in February 2020, the game was released for Microsoft Windows and macOS on 2 September 2021 with versions for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One arriving on 1 March 2022.
210911-23:10
    - The game is a [[sequel]] to Pathfinder: Kingmaker, the previous RPG of the same developer, but it is not [following the same story]. The sequel builds on the engine from Kingmaker to [address concerns raised by] [critics and players], and [expands additional rulesets]([[ruleset]]) from the [[tabletop game]], includes new [[character class]]es and the [mythic progression system](((tS2buss4B))).[1](((jD0Rp4xi3))) Owlcat launched a Kickstarter campaign in February 2020 to [raise additional development funds] for the title.[2] The Kickstarter [successfully raised] over US$2 million of its requested US$300,000, allowing for several [stretch goals] to be added [during development].[3](((HJAUPXyfx))) Like its predecessor, Wrath of the Righteous follows an [[Adventure Path]] [of the same name], which was [originally published in] August 2013.
210911-23:20
- References
    - [1]: Palmer, Philip (4 December 2019). ["Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous announced"](https://www.pcgamer.com/pathfinder-wrath-of-the-righteous-announced/). __[PC Gamer]__. Retrieved 4 December 2019.
    - [3]: O'Conner, Alice (March 16, 2020). ["Pathfinder: Wrath Of The Righteous smashed its Kickstarter goal"](https://www.rockpapershotgun.com/2020/03/16/pathfinder-wrath-of-the-righteous-smashed-its-kickstarter-goal/). __[Rock Paper Shotgun]__. Retrieved March 16, 2020.
