- The Albert Team
    - Last Updated On: June 1, 2020
    - Albert.io offers the best [practice questions] for [high-stakes exams] 高风险考试 and [core courses] [spanning grades 6-12]. For over five years, [hundreds of thousands of students] have used Albert to [build confidence] and [score better] on their SAT®, ACT®, AP, and [Common Core tests]. If you're an educator interested in trying Albert, [click the button below] to learn about our [pilot program].
- Feedback is defined as [the information gained about] [a reaction to a product], which will allow the [[modification]] of the product. [[feedback loop]]s are therefore the process whereby [a change to the system] [results in an alarm] which will [trigger a certain result](((Ld6QAv8Tr))). This result will either [increase the change to the system] or reduce it to [bring the system back to normal]. A few questions remain: How do these systems work? What is a positive feedback? What is negative feedback? Where do we [find these systems in nature]?
210527-05:30
- [Biological systems]([[biological system]]) [operate on a mechanism of inputs and outputs], each caused by and [causing a certain event]. A feedback loop is a [biological occurrence] wherein [the output of a system]([[system output]]) [amplifies the system] (positive feedback) or [inhibits the system] 抑制 (negative feedback). Feedback loops are important because they allow [[living organism]]s to **maintain homeostasis**. [Homeostasis](https://www.albert.io/blog/homeostasis-ap-biology-crash-course-review/) is the mechanism that [enables us to keep] our [[internal environment]] [relatively constant] – not too hot, or too cold, not too hungry or tired. 
(反馈回路使得生物体能够维持体内平衡/内环境稳定)
    - [The level of energy] that an organism needs to maintain [[homeostasis]] [depends on the type of organism], as well as [the environment it inhabits]. For example, a [cold-blooded fish] keeps its temperature at the same level as the water around it, and so doesn’t need to control its [[internal temperature]]. Compare this to a [warm-blooded whale] [in the same environment]: it needs to [keep its body temperature higher than] that of [the water around it], and so it will [expend more energy] in [[temperature regulation]]. 
210527-20:00
    - [This is a difference between] **ectotherms **and **endotherms**: an [[ectotherm]] uses the [[environmental temperature]] to control its internal temperature (e.g. reptiles, amphibians, and fish), whereas an [[endotherm]] uses homeostasis to [maintain its internal temperature]. Endotherms can [maintain their metabolism]([[metabolism]]) [at a constant rate], allowing constant movement, reaction and [internal processes], whereas ectotherms cannot maintain their metabolism at a constant rate. This means that their movement, reaction and internal processes are [dependent on adequate external heat], but it also means that they [require less energy] [in the form of food], as their bodies are not [constantly burning fuel].
(热血/温血动物能够维持新陈代谢的稳定速率，不依赖于适当的外界热源条件，但因为其身体需要持续不断地消耗能量，因此需要更充足的食物来提供能量)
- ## **Negative Feedback Loops**
    - A negative feedback loop [occurs in biology] when [the product of a reaction]([[reaction product]]) [leads to a decrease in that reaction]. In this way, a [negative feedback loop] [brings a system closer to] [a target of stability] or homeostasis. Negative feedback loops are responsible for [the stabilization of a system], and [ensure the maintenance of] a steady, stable state. The response of the [regulating mechanism](((Bv6_WVs36))) 调节机制的响应 is opposite to [the output of the event].
210528-02:45
    - ### **Example 1: Temperature Regulation**
        - temperature regulation in humans [occurs constantly]. Normal [[human body temperature]] is approximately 98.6°F (37.0℃). When body temperature [rises above this], two mechanisms kick in the body begins to [[sweat]], and [[vasodilation]] occurs to allow more of the [blood surface area] to be exposed to the cooler [[external environment]]. As the sweat cools, it causes [[evaporative cooling]], while the [[blood vessel]]s cause [[convective cooling]]. 对流冷却 Normal temperature is regained. Should these [[cooling mechanism]]s continue, the body will become cold. 
            - [The mechanisms which then kick in] are the formation of [[goose bump]]s, and [[vasoconstriction]]. Goosebumps in other [[mammal]]s raise the hair or fur, allowing more heat to be retained. In humans, they tighten the surrounding skin, reducing (slightly) the surface area [from which to lose heat]. Vasoconstriction ensures that [only a small surface area of] the veins is [exposed to the cooler outside temperature], retaining heat. Normal temperature is regained.
