- In this chapter, [techniques to improve] [[spectral SNR]] of [measurements using an FT spectrometer] are discussed. [In attempting to improve] spectral SNR, [first it is important to recognize] [the limiting source of noise and error]. In this chapter, some of the dominant sources of error are identified by analyzing the characteristics of the output spectra through practical and simple experimental procedures.
    - To begin, some of the various sources of errors are revisited, focusing mainly on their qualitative characteristics. Some practical ways to identify the instrument’s limiting source of noise are presented. These procedures are certainly not set in stone, but are intended to provide the reader with a useful starting point in characterizing his or her instrument. Some accepted methods (for both hardware and software) to improve spectral SNR are then presented.
- 10.1 Identification of [[error source]]s
    - 10.1.1 Detector noise p106
        - As discussed in Sec. 8.2, the [allowable spectral SNR] due to detector noise (in the detector-noise-limited case) is proportional to the [[radiation power]] P incident on the detector element, and is [inversely proportional to] [the detector’s NEP value]([[noise equivalent power (NEP)]]):
- 10.6 Double Beaming p113
    - The [[double-beam method]] calls for the [[source beam]] to be [split in two] [with one focused on the sample] and [the other on a reference point]([[reference point]]). [This technique is used when] [[repeatability]] of the [[single-beam spectra]] is unsatisfactory due to [[source fluctuation]]s, [[background noise]], and even some [instrumental or sample variations]. Two detectors are then used to record the two transmission spectra simultaneously. This is called the electrical subtraction technique. Another type of double-beaming method involves subtraction in the optical domain. Both of these methods are discussed in this section.
- References
    - [2] K. R. Betty, G. Horlick, “[A simple and versatile](((yGnBPl1qB))) [Fourier domain digital filter],” __Applied Spectroscopy__, 30 , pp. 23–27 (1976).
    - [5] G. Laroche, J. Giroux, A. Bordeleau, J. M. Garneau, “Investigation of [electrical and optical subtractions] using two input-port and two output-port FT-IR spectrometers,” Applied Spectroscopy, 48 (3), pp. 356–362 (1994).
    - [8] T. Hirschfeld, “Digitization noise in Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and gain ranging,” Applied Spectroscopy, 33 (5), pp. 525–527 (1979).
