- A [solenoid valve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Solonoid_valves.jpg) is an [electromechanically-operated valve].
    - Solenoid valves differ in the characteristics of the [[electric current]] they use, the strength of the [[magnetic field]] they generate, [the mechanism they use to] [regulate the fluid](((gTWN92-mX))), and [the type and characteristics of fluid] they control. The mechanism varies from linear action, plunger-type actuators 柱塞式执行器 to pivoted-armature actuators 枢轴电枢执行器 and rocker actuators. 摇臂执行器 The valve can use [a two-port design](((UiutzCc9x))) to regulate a flow or use [a three or more port design](((Iw67PXD7W))) to [switch flows between ports](((o7E0Xjbbo))). Multiple solenoid valves [can be placed together on a manifold]([[manifold]]). 一起放置在一个歧管上
210727-19:06
    - Solenoid valves are the [most frequently used] [control elements in fluidics]([[fluidics]]). 射流/流体控制元件 Their tasks are to shut off, release, dose, (送药; 剂量) distribute or mix fluids. They are found [in many application areas]. Solenoids offer [fast and safe switching], high-[[reliability]], long [[service life]], good medium [[compatibility]] of the materials used, low control power and compact design.
210727-19:20
- Operation
    - There are many valve [design variations]. [Ordinary valves] [can have many ports] and [[fluid path]]s. A [[2-way valve]], for example, has 2 [[port]]s; if the valve is open, then [the two ports are connected] and fluid may [flow between the ports]; if the valve is closed, then ports are isolated. If the valve is open [when the solenoid is not energized](((kipz2ZEEv))), then the valve is termed [[normally open (N.O.)]]. Similarly, if the valve is closed when the solenoid is not energized, then the valve is termed [[normally closed (N.C.)]].[1] There are also 3-way and [more complicated designs].[2] A [[3-way valve]] has 3 ports; it [connects one port to] [either of the two other ports] (typically a [[supply port]] and an [[exhaust port]]). 
(电磁阀的两个端口，在关闭时，是互相断开的，气体无法流通)
    - Solenoid valves are also characterized by [how they operate]. A small solenoid can [generate a limited force]. [An approximate relationship between] the [required solenoid force] Fs, the [[fluid pressure]] P, and the [[orifice area]] A for a [direct acting solenoid valve](((UiutzCc9x))) is:[3]
210808-23:43
        - $${\displaystyle F_{s}=P*A=P\pi d^{2}/4}$$
        - Where d is the [[orifice diameter]]. A typical solenoid force might be 15 N (3.4 lbf). An application might be a low pressure (e.g., 10 psi (69 kPa)) gas [with a small orifice diameter] (e.g., 3⁄8 in (9.5 mm) for an orifice area of 0.11 in^2 (7.1×10^−5 m2) and [approximate force] of 1.1 lbf (4.9 N)).
        - The LO1 Series offers high flow in a compact, direct acting solenoid valve. www.[chem17].com
    - [The solenoid valve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Pneumatic_Rack_and_Pinion_Actuators.JPG) (small black box [at the top of the photo]) with [input air line](((6VB3eft5s))) (small green tube) used to actuate a larger [[rack and pinion]] [[actuator]] (gray box) which controls the [water pipe valve](((b3NBK4uiU))). 
210809-00:00
