- Spectral imaging is imaging that uses [multiple bands] across the [[electromagnetic spectrum]]. While an ordinary [[camera]] [captures light]([[capture light]]) across three [[wavelength band]]s in the [[visible spectrum]], red, green, and blue ([[RGB]]), spectral imaging [encompasses a wide variety of techniques] that [go beyond RGB]. 
    - Spectral imaging may use the [[infrared]], the visible spectrum, the [[ultraviolet]], [[x-ray]]s, or [some combination of] the above. It may include the acquisition of [[image data]] in [[visible band]] and [[non-visible band]]s simultaneously, [[illumination]] from outside the [[visible range]], or the use of [[optical filter]]s to capture a specific [[spectral range]]. It is also possible to [capture hundreds of wavelength bands] for each [[pixel]] in an image.
    - [The](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Electromagnetic-Spectrum.svg) **electromagnetic spectrum**
- [[multispectral imaging]] captures a small number of [[spectral band]]s, typically three to fifteen, through the use of [varying filters and illumination]. Many off-the-shelf RGB cameras will detect a small amount of [[Near-Infrared (NIR)]] light. A [[scene]] may be [illuminated with NIR light], and, simultaneously, an [[infrared-passing filter]] may be [used on the camera] to ensure that [[visible light]] is blocked and only NIR is [captured in the image]. Industrial, military, and scientific work, however, uses [[sensor]]s [built for the purpose].
210313-01:56
- Hyperspectral imaging is another subcategory of spectral imaging, which combines spectroscopy and digital photography. In hyperspectral imaging, a complete spectrum or some spectral information (such as the Doppler shift or Zeeman splitting of a spectral line) is collected at every pixel in an image plane. A hyperspectral camera uses special hardware to capture hundreds of wavelength bands for each pixel, which can be interpreted as a complete spectrum. In other words, the camera has a high spectral resolution. The phrase "spectral imaging" is sometimes used as a shorthand way of referring to this technique, but it is preferable to use the term "hyperspectral imaging" in places when ambiguity may arise. Hyperspectral images are often represented as an image cube, which is type of data cube.[1](((2T80u6RyL)))
- Applications of spectral imaging include art conservation, astronomy, solar physics, planetology, and Earth remote sensing.
- References
    - [1]: ["Visualization and Analysis of Spectral Data Cubes an Hipe toolbox (sic)"](http://herschel.esac.esa.int/DP_wkshop/4_Gueguen_v2.pdf) (PDF). __herschel.esac.esa.int__. 2008-12-04. Retrieved 2017-04-28.
- __This [physics-related article] is a __[stub]__. You can help Wikipedia by __[expanding it](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Spectral_imaging&action=edit)__.__ #stub
- [Categories](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Category): [[astronomical spectroscopy]]
    - A [serious problem] in astronomical spectroscopy is imposed by [the absorption of light] in the [earth's atmosphere]. www.[dictall].com
    - The [Astronomical Fiber Optical Spectroscopy System] of the [BAO 2.16m Telescope]. dict.cnki.net
210313-02:02
