- And on that wave
we will all have to navigate,
all who are nourished
by the fruits of the Earth. (II, 14) 滋养
- ### WHAT HAPPENS WHEN NOTHING HAPPENS?
    - For millennia before clocks, our only [regular way] of [measuring time] had been [the alternation of day and night](((GRWzUgz8S))). [The rhythm of day followed by night] also [regulates the lives of plants and animals]. [Diurnal rhythms](((v8hwAeHGb))) are ubiquitous [in the natural world]. They are essential to life, and [it seems to me probable that] they [played a key role in] [the very origin of life on Earth], since [an oscillation is required to] [set a mechanism in motion]. [Living organisms] are [full of clocks of various kinds]—molecular, neuronal, chemical, hormonal—[each of them more or less] [in tune with the others]. 41 There are [chemical mechanisms] that [keep to a twenty-four-hour rhythm even] [in the biochemistry of single cells].
211211-11:40
    - Aristotle is [the first we are aware of] to have [asked himself the question] “What is time?,” and he [came to the following conclusion]: time is [the measurement of change]. Things change continually. We call “time” the measurement, the counting of this change.
        - Aristotle’s idea is sound: time is [what we refer to] [when we ask] “when?” “[After how much time] [will you return]?” means “When will you return?” The answer to the question “when?” refers to [something that happens]. “I’ll return in three days’ time” means that [between departure and return] the sun will have [completed three circuits in the sky]. It’s as simple as that.
- ### WHAT IS THERE, WHERE THERE IS NOTHING?
    - [[Aristotle]] was the first to [discuss in depth and with acuity] the meaning of “space,” or “place,” and to [arrive at a precise definition]: [the place of a thing] is [what surrounds that thing]. 49
        - As in the case of time, Newton suggests that [we should think differently]. The space defined by Aristotle, [the enumeration of](((0pFTgPxyx))) [what surrounds each thing], is called “relative, apparent, and common” by Newton. He calls “absolute, true, and mathematical” space in itself, which exists [even where there is nothing].
211211-16:25
        - The difference between Aristotle and Newton is glaring. For Newton, [between two things] [there may also be] “[[empty space]].” For Aristotle, [it is absurd to speak of] “empty” space, because space is only [the spatial order of things]. If there are no things—their extension, their contacts—there is no space. Newton imagines that things are [situated in a “space”] that [continues to exist], empty, even when divested of things. For Aristotle, this “empty space” is nonsensical, because [if two things do not touch] it means that [there is something else between them], and if there is something, then this something is a thing, and therefore a thing that is there. It cannot be that there is “nothing.”
        - For my part, I find it curious that [both these ways of thinking about] space [originate from our everyday experience](((UdMWxhO3l))). [The difference between them exists due to] [a quirky accident of] [the world in which we live]: the lightness of air, the presence of which we [only barely perceive]. We can say: I see a table, a chair, a pen, the ceiling—and that between myself and the table [there is nothing]. Or [we can say that] [between one and another of these things] there is air. [Sometimes we speak of] air [as if it were something], sometimes as if it were nothing. Sometimes as if it were there, sometimes as if it were not there. We are used to saying “This glass is empty” [in order to say that] [it is full of air]. We can [consequently think of] [the world around us] as “almost empty,” [with just a few objects] [here and there], or alternatively as “completely full” of air. In the end, Aristotle and Newton do not engage in [profound metaphysics]: they are only using these two different [intuitive and ingenious ways] of [seeing the world around us]—taking or not taking air into account—and transforming them into [definitions of space].
211211-17:10
(空间的定义与空气的直觉关联)
    - The Newtonian idea of “empty space” [seems to be confirmed] when Torricelli [demonstrates that it is possible to] [remove the air from a bottle]. It soon becomes clear, however, that [inside the bottle] many [physical entities]([[physical entity]]) remain: electric and magnetic fields, and [a constant swarming of] [quantum particles]. The existence of a [complete void], [without any physical entity except] [amorphous space], “absolute, true, and mathematical,” remains [a brilliant theoretical idea] introduced by Newton [to found his physics on], for there is no scientific, [experimental evidence] [to support its existence]. An ingenious hypothesis, [perhaps the most profound insight] achieved by [one of the greatest scientists]—but is it one that [actually corresponds to] [the reality of things]? Does Newton’s space [really exist]? If it exists, is it really amorphous? [Can a place exist] [where nothing exists]?
211211-18:50
        - [The answer to all these questions] lies in [an unexpected synthesis of] the apparently [contradictory ideas] [held by these two giants]. And to accomplish this, [it was necessary for] a third giant to [enter the dance].*
        - * [I have been criticized for] [telling the history of science]([[scientific history]]) [as if it were just the result of] the ideas of [a few brilliant minds] rather than [the painstaking work of generations]. It’s a [fair enough] criticism, and I apologize to the generations who have done and are [doing the necessary work]. [My only excuse is that] [I am not attempting] a [detailed historical analysis] or [[scientific methodology]]. I am only synthesizing a few [crucial steps]. Slow, technical, cultural, and artistic advances made by [innumerable workshops of painters and artisans] [were necessary before] the [Sistine Chapel] was possible. But in the end, it was Michelangelo who painted it.
211212-16:30
- ### THE DANCE OF THE THREE GIANTS
    - Physicists call “fields” the substances that, to the best of our knowledge, constitute the weave of the physical reality of the world. Sometimes they may be given exotic names: the fields “of Dirac” are the fabric of which tables and stars are made. The “electromagnetic” field is the weave of which light is made, as well as the origin of the forces that make electric motors turn and the needle of a compass point north. But— here is the key point—there is also a “gravitational” field: it is the origin of the force of gravity, but it is also the texture that forms Newton’s space and time, the fabric on which the rest of the world is drawn. Clocks are mechanisms that measure its extension. The meters used for measuring length are portions of matter that measure another aspect of its extension.
    - Spacetime is the gravitational field—and vice versa. It is something that exists by itself, as Newton intuited, even without matter. But it is not an entity that is different from the other things in the world—as Newton believed—it is a field like the others. More than a drawing on a canvas, the world is like a superimposition of canvases, of strata, where the gravitational field is only one among others. Just like the others, it is neither absolute nor uniform, nor is it fixed: it flexes, stretches, and jostles with the others, pushing and pulling against them. Equations describe the reciprocal influences that all the fields have on each other, and spacetime is one of these fields.*
