- [[detector noise]] is [probably the most studied and well-known] [source of error] in [[spectroscopy]], including [[Fourier-transform spectroscopy]]. However, contrary to [popular belief], detector noise [may not always be] the [limiting factor] to the [signal- to-noise ratio]([[signal-to-noise ratio (SNR)]]) obtainable by a Fourier-transform spectrometer. It is the goal of this chapter to provide an understanding of the relationship between the magnitude of the detector noise and the spectral SNR allowable in FTS. In addition, various types of photo detectors and the general guidelines for selecting them are described.
220415-10:13
    - [It is important to understand that] detector noise [has a unique characteristic]: unlike [noise from other sources] in the system, [it is independent of] the [[signal level]]. Thus, with the [conventional definition] of the signal-to-noise ratio, ... the SNR obtainable is proportional to the amount of signal available. What this means is that the SNR due to detector noise can be extremely high when the radiation energy that falls on the detector element is high. In this case, the actual instrumental SNR is limited by other components, which may be the mechanical drive error, the A/D digitization error, the sampling error, etc. Therefore, detector noise [generally becomes significant only when] the [[radiation power]] [incident on the detector] is very low.
- 8.2 Spectral SNR Quantification
    - A practical method to estimate the spectral power, and thus the SNR in the detector-noise-limited case, is presented in this section. The method involves four main steps: (1) obtain the NEP value of the detection system; (2) obtain the radiation power information from the recorded interferogram; (3) calculate the SNR of the interferogram; and finally, (4) convert the SNR value of the interferogram into a spectral SNR value. Generally, the success of predicting the spectral SNR of the detector-noise-limited instruments hinges on the ability to quantify the source’s radiation intensity. By measuring the actual radiation power that falls on the detector element, the need to calculate or estimate it is avoided. All of the other instrumental and procedural factors such as the optical throughput, the system’s efficiency, and the sample absorbance are already taken into account as well.
    - Now the radiation power from the recorded interferogram is estimated. It is known that the interferogram of a broadband source consists of a “burst” at or near the zero OPD, which quickly drops as the OPD increases (see Fig. 8.1). The “wings” of the interferogram (the parts away from the centerburst) contain a signal that fluctuates around a mean value. This mean value is used to approximate the power of the radiation that falls on the detector. This part of the interferogram actually conveys the medium- to high-resolution elements of the spectrum, while the signal at zero OPD contains the dc and low-resolution elements. Therefore, it is reasonable to use this mean-signal value at the wings of the interferogram as the contributing signal in our SNR calculation.
    - Now a [numerical example] is considered, where the [achievable spectral SNR] is approximated while [assuming the limiting factor is] the [detector noise]. [The system’s variables] are outlined in Table 8.1.
        - {{[[TODO]]}} Table 8.1 [System variables] for numerical example.   p94
- 8.3 Detector Types p95
    - There are mainly three types of detectors, and they are [categorized based on] their [physical mechanisms] in converting a [[radiation signal]] to an [[electrical signal]]: (1) [[photomultiplier tube (PMT)]]s, (2) [[photodiode]]s, and (3) [[thermal detector]]s. [A number of excellent books] [cover the various types of] detectors and their [operating principles] in [more detail than is presented here]; the [[interested reader]] is referred to Refs. [1] and [2]. This section aims to give short descriptions on each type, intended to provide the reader with their characteristics and differences relevant to FT spectroscopic measurements.
220415-10:25
    - Photomultiplier tubes are very [[sensitive]] and are [fast radiation-energy detectors](((YfMKwHvEx))) based on [[photoemissivity]]. A typical NEP rating for this type of detector is 7 × 10 16 W/Hz 1/2 at 400 nm. A typical rise time is 1–2 ns. However, they are responsive only between 200 nm and 900 nm, making them useless for spectroscopic applications operating in the near infrared through the far infrared.
- 8.4 [Selection Guidelines](((0mwL-03Tr)))
    - There are many kinds of detectors commercially available today, varying in not only the type of material they are made, but also in their element size, cooling method, and type of electronics they possess. This is fortunate, but it also can be rather confusing to choose the right type of detector for a particular application. The detection system is relatively expensive, ranging anywhere between 10% and 60% of the total cost of the spectrometer. Thus, one cannot always afford to choose the “best” one out of those available. In fact, it is unwise to spend much of the budget on the detector while ignoring the performance capability of the other parts of the instrument. It is hoped that Sec. 8.2 provides the reader with enough knowledge to predict the spectral SNR allowable for a certain detector, so that the detection system is not under or over designed. This section aims to properly explain the important terminology used to specify a detector, although some of the terms have been mentioned in previous sections.
    - 8.4.4 Linearity
        - Ideally, the [[output voltage]] of the [[amplifier]] is proportional to the [[radiation power]]. Otherwise, the problem of [[spectral accuracy]] and/or [transferability between instruments]([[transferability]]) arises. This is important in [quantitative applications] where, for example, the absorption magnitude of [a particular solute] is to be determined and compared with results or the standard measurement using other instruments.
        - Absorption is a measure of the ratio of the sample transmission T s to the reference transmission T r :
