- O gentlemen, the time of life is short . . .
And if we live, we live to tread on kings. 放在我们足下践踏
—— Shakespeare, Henry IV, Part I (act 5, scene 2)
- [Thinking of the world as] [a collection of events], of processes, [is the way that allows us to] better grasp, comprehend, and describe it. [It is the only way that] is [compatible with relativity]. [The world is not] [a collection of things], it is a collection of events.
(世界是事件和过程的集合，而非物体的集合)
    - [The difference between things and events is that] things [persist in time]; events have a [limited duration]. A stone is a prototypical “thing”: [we can ask ourselves] [where it will be tomorrow]. Conversely, a kiss is an “event.” [It makes no sense to ask] where the kiss will be tomorrow. [The world is made up of] networks of kisses, not of stones.
211218-01:35
- The [basic units] in terms of which we [comprehend the world] are not [located in some specific point in space]. They are—if they are at all—in a where [but also in a when]. They are spatially but also [temporally delimited]: they are [[event]]s.
- On closer inspection, in fact, even the things that are most “thinglike” are [nothing more than long events]. The hardest stone, in the light of [what we have learned from chemistry], from physics, from mineralogy, from geology, from psychology, is in reality [a complex vibration of quantum fields], a momentary interaction of forces, a process that [for a brief moment] [manages to keep its shape], to [hold itself in equilibrium] [before disintegrating again into dust], [a brief chapter in the history] of [interactions between the elements of the planet], a trace of [Neolithic humanity], a weapon used by [a gang of kids], an example in a book about time, a [[metaphor]] for an [[ontology]], a part of [a segmentation of the world] that [depends more on] [how our bodies are structured] to perceive than on [the object of perception]—and, gradually, [an intricate knot](((Gp4OnHV2M))) 一个错综复杂的结 in that [cosmic game of mirrors] that [constitutes reality]. [The world is not so much made of] stones as of [fleeting sounds], or of waves [moving through the sea].
211225-00:34
    - If the world were, however, made of things, what would these things be? The atoms, which we have discovered to [be made up in turn of smaller particles]? The elementary particles, which, as we have discovered, are nothing other than [the ephemeral agitations of a field]? 瞬息的扰动 The quantum fields, which we have found to be [little more than] [codes of a language] with which [to speak of interactions and events]? We cannot think of the [[physical world]] as if it were made of things, of entities. It simply doesn’t work. 
    - [What works instead is] [thinking about the world as] [a network of events]. Simple events, and [more complex events] that [can be disassembled into combinations of simpler ones]. A few examples: a war is not a thing, it’s a sequence of events. A storm is not a thing, it’s a collection of occurrences. A cloud above a mountain is not a thing, it is [the condensation of humidity in the air] that [the wind blows over the mountain]. A wave is not a thing, it is a movement of water, and [the water that forms it] is always different. A family is not a thing, it is a collection of relations, occurrences, feelings. And a human being? Of course it’s not a thing; like the cloud [above the mountain], it’s a complex process, where food, information, light, words, and so on [enter and exit]. . . . A knot of knots in a network of [[social relation]]s, in a network of [[chemical process]]es, in a network of [[emotion]]s [exchanged with its own kind].
211225-01:32, 01:48
- The words of Anaximander [quoted in the first chapter] of this book [invited us to think of] the world “according to the order of time.” If we do not [assume a priori that]([[priori ]]) we know [what the order of time is]—if we do not, that is, [presuppose that] it is [the linear and universal order] [that we are accustomed to]—Anaximander’s exhortation [remains valid]: [we understand the world by] [studying change]([[change]]), not by [studying things].
    - Those who have [neglected this good advice] [have paid a heavy price for it]. [Two of the greats who] [fell into this error] were Plato and Kepler, both [curiously seduced by] the same mathematics.
    - In the Timaeus, Plato [has the excellent idea of] [attempting to translate into mathematics] [the physics insights gained by] atomists such as Democritus. But he [goes about it the wrong way]: he tries to [write the mathematics of] [the shape of atoms], rather than [the mathematics of their movements]. He [allows himself to be fascinated by] a [mathematical theorem] which establishes that there are five—and only five—[regular polyhedra], these ones:
211225-01:55
