- 
- ---
- This article is about speakers of [extinct languages] of the [[Tarim Basin]], China. For the Tókharoi (or Tochari) of [[Bactria]], see [[Tokharistan]]. For the [ancient Indian tribe] [sometimes known as] the Tukharas, see Tushara Kingdom. For a [historical people] of China [controversially identified with] the Tocharians, see [[月氏 (Yuezhi)]].
211002-11:10
- The Tocharians, or Tokharians (US: /toʊˈkɛəriən/ or /toʊˈkɑːriən/;[5] UK: /tɒˈkɑːriən/),[6] were speakers of [[Tocharian languages]], [[Indo-European languages]] known from around 7600 documents [from around 400 to 1200 AD], [found on the northern edge of] the Tarim Basin (modern [[新疆 (Xinjiang)]], China).[7] The name "Tocharian" was [given to these languages] [in the early 20th century] by scholars who [identified their speakers with] a people known [in ancient Greek sources] as the Tókharoi (Latin Tochari), who [inhabited Bactria] [from the 2nd century BC]. This identification is [generally considered erroneous], but the name "Tocharian" [remains the most common term for] the languages and their speakers. Their [actual ethnic name] is unknown, although they may have [referred to themselves as] Agni, Kuči and Krorän, or Agniya, Kuchiya as known [from Sanskrit texts]([[Sanskrit]]).[8]
211002-11:17
    - [Agricultural communities] first appeared [in the oases of the northern Tarim] [circa 2000 BC]. Some scholars have linked these communities to the [[Afanasievo culture]] found earlier (c. 3500–2500 BC) in Siberia, north of the Tarim or Central Asian [[BMAC culture]]. The earliest [Tarim mummies], which [may not be connected to] the Tocharians, date from c. 1800 BC.
    - By the 2nd century BC, these settlements had developed into city-states, overshadowed by nomadic peoples to the north and Chinese empires to the east. These cities, the largest of which was Kucha, also served as way stations on the branch of the Silk Road that ran along the northern edge of the Taklamakan desert.
    - For several centuries the Tarim basin was ruled by the Xiongnu, Han Dynasty, Tibetan Empire and Tang Dynasty. From the 8th century AD, the Uyghurs – speakers of a Turkic language – settled in the region and founded the Kingdom of Qocho that ruled Tarim Basin. The peoples of the Tarim city-states intermixed with the Uyghurs, whose Old Uyghur language spread through the region. The Tocharian languages are believed to have become extinct during the 9th century.
- ---
