- self-regulating heat tracing tape; 
- [[伴热管线]]
- ---
- [Electric heat tracing], [heat tape] or [surface heating], is a system used to [maintain or raise the temperature of] [[pipe]]s and [[vessel]]s using [[heat tracing cable]]s. 伴热电缆 Trace heating [takes the form of] an [[electrical heating element]] run in [physical contact] [along the length of a pipe]. The pipe is usually covered with [[thermal insulation]] 隔热层 to retain [[heat loss]]es from the pipe. [Heat generated by the element] then [maintains the temperature of] the pipe. 
    - Trace heating may be used to [protect pipes from freezing]([[freezing]]), to maintain a constant [[flow temperature]] in [hot water systems], or to maintain [[process temperature]]s for piping that must [transport substances] that [[solidify]] at [[ambient temperature]]s. [Electric trace heating cables]([[electric heat tracing]]) are an alternative to [[steam trace heating]] where steam is [unavailable or unwanted].[2]
220113-17:57
    - [self-regulating heat tracing tape](((RCRUxrdFa))) with the [gray end seal] next to a copper [[drain pipe]] with [[insulator]] [wrapped around them]. This protects the pipe from [[freezing]].[1]
- ## Types
    - ### Self regulating
        - [Self-regulating heat tracing tapes](((RCRUxrdFa))) are cable whose [[resistance]] [varies with temperature] - [low resistance] for [temperatures below] the cable [[set point]] and high resistance for [temperatures above] the cable set point. When the cable temperature [reaches the set point] the resistance [reaches a high point] and resulting in [no more heat being supplied].
220114-00:12
- References
    - [1]: [__Raychem XL-Trace System: [Installation and Operation Manual] for [Pipe Freeze Protection] and [Flow Maintenance]__] ([PDF](https://web.archive.org/web/20140709114020/http://www.pentairthermal.com/Images/EN-RaychemXLTracePipeFreezeProtection-IM-H58033_tcm432-26425.pdf)). Pentair. March 2013. Archived from [the original](http://www.pentairthermal.com/Images/EN-RaychemXLTracePipeFreezeProtection-IM-H58033_tcm432-26425.pdf) (PDF) on 9 July 2014. Retrieved 3 August 2014. #[[operation manual]]
    - [2] Paul R. Smith, ed. __Facilities engineering 设施工程 and management handbook: commercial, industrial, and [institutional buildings]__, McGraw Hill,2001 [ISBN] [0-07-059323-X](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0-07-059323-X) chapter 5 pages 5-198 through 5-201
        - Existing technology has enabled some architects to [reduce energy demand] in houses and [commercial and institutional buildings] 科研/机构类建筑 by 60-70 per cent compared to [current regulatory standards]. 现行规范标准 bbs.topenergy.org
        - Architects conceptualize, plan and develop designs for the [construction and renovation] of commercial, institutional and [residential buildings]. www.[myqcqc].com
