- # Truenamer (5e Class)
    - Truenamers [study the language] that the Universe uses to [compose the very fabric of reality](((LZdS964Up))). Many Truenamers seek to [learn as much of this language as possible] in order to understand the [inner workings](((qXhK9-tgh))) of the Universe. All Truenamers learn the [basic words] and even some [advanced subjects] as they [progress through their life], and while many seek to [learn as much as possible], some simply seek to utilize their own [Personal Truename](((yiL-yQR3v))) to its [maximum potential](((tghPYBtE1))). As a Truenamer, you know how to [shape the very fabric of reality] [using the core coded language](((9h2E_FXIU))) of the Universe. [With this awesome power at your disposal] 授权; 处置 [you might someday be able to] [shape the Universe itself] by weaving your own name as you see fit into reality, or simply [remove someone else's from existence].
(真名-如何从底层构造/编织/编码多元宇宙的实在/真实) #pt9-100
210330-16:24
    - ## Concerning Truename Magic
        - [Truespeak]([[truespeak]]) is the [[primal language]] of the universe 根源 and is composed of syllables and Truenames. Truenames describe a generalized creature, place, thing or action, delivered in the primal language of the universe. Each Truename is [exceedingly specific] and incredibly [difficult to pronounce]. There is [a more specific category] of Truenames called Personal Truenames which uniquely [identify a single creature](((bEOjMrnfR))) perfectly. Knowledge of a Personal Truename allows you to [alter its base components] and [change the personal identification](((lKRTbe3Tm))) of the individual [with unrivaled power].
(真言术-宇宙的根源语言-标识某个生物的本质属性)
210330-16:50
            - By combining an action Truename with a descriptive Truename, you can create a magical effect. This is the most important ability of a Truenamer, as it allows you to remake the universe in accordance with your wishes. You have to correctly pronounce Truenames, or they will fail to do anything.
