- Abstract 
    - Ye or Dongye (Korean [[pronunciation]]: [toŋ.je]), which means the Eastern Ye, was a Korean [[chiefdom]] which [occupied portions of] the [northeastern Korean peninsula] from roughly 3rd-century BC to around early 5th-century. It bordered [[高句丽 (Goguryeo)]] and [[沃沮 (Okjeo)]] to the north, [[辰韓 (Jinhan)]] to the south, and China's [[乐浪郡 (Lelang Commandery)]] to the west. Today, this [[territory]] consists of the provinces of South Hamgyŏng and Kangwon in North Korea, and Gangwon in South Korea.
    - Hangul	예
Hanja	濊
Revised Romanization	Ye
McCune–Reischauer	Ye
    - Part of **a series** on the [[History of Korea]]
    - Ye [appears in history] as a [[vassal state]] of Goguryeo. In early 5th-century, however, King Gwanggaeto the Great of Goguryeo [[annex]]ed Ye, leading to Goguryeo's domination of the entire [northern portion] of the Korean peninsula and most of [[满洲 (Manchuria)]]. A small part of Ye in the south was absorbed into [[新罗 (Silla)]].
- People and culture
    - The Ye considered themself as [the same people as] of Goguryeo, and shared the language and [[ethnic origin]]s with the people of Okjeo and Goguryeo. This may indicate that Dongye also shared a [[common origin]] with [[扶余 (Buyeo)]] and [[Gojoseon (古朝鮮)]]. The [[population]] was recorded to be 280,000 [families]([[family]]).
    - Very little information about Ye has survived; most of the [[extant information]] comes from the discussion of the [Eastern barbarians]([[barbarian]]) in the Chinese [[三国志 (Records of Three Kingdoms)]]. 
        - The [[custom]] of "Mucheon" (무천, 舞天), a [[festival]] of [[worshipping heaven]] [through song and dance] in the 10th month, is mentioned in some records. This appears to have been [closely related to] [the Goguryeo festival of Dongmaeng], held at the same time of year, which also incorporated [[martial display]]s. The people worshiped the [[tiger]] as a [[deity]].
        - The economy of Ye was [based primarily on agriculture], including [[sericulture]] and [[hemp cultivation]].[1] The Mucheon festival was [largely aimed at] securing a [[good harvest]] [in the coming year]. Their agriculture appears to [have been well-organized] at the [[village level]]. Ye law [meted out stiff penalties]([[penalty]]) 实行严厉惩罚 for those who encroached on [[communal land]]. 侵占公共土地
        - They have no [[sovereign chief]]... Their [[elder]]s [have long considered that] they are of the same [[stock]] as the Goguryeo. Sincere by nature they [keep their desires to a minimum], have a sense of shame, and do not [beg for alms]. In language, usages, and customs they are in general the same as the Goguryeo, but in their clothing there are differences. Men and women both wear pleated collars, and the men plait silver flowers several inches wide for adornment... Their custom is to give great importance to mountains and rivers, each of which has certain parts into which people are not permitted to wade indiscriminately. Members of the same clan do not intermarry. They have many superstitions and taboos: in the event of illness or death, they always abandon their old dwelling, rebuild, and resettle... They also sacrifice to the tiger as to a divine being... They make spears three zhang in length, sometimes carried by three men at once. They are capable foot soldiers; the "sandalwood bow" of Lelang comes from their land.[2]
    —__[Sanguo Zhi]__
