- The Toi invasion (Japanese: 刀伊の入寇, Hepburn: toi no nyūkō) was the invasion of [northern Kyūshū] by [[Jurchen pirates]] in 1019.[5]
    - At the time, Toi (되, Doe) meant "barbarian" in the Korean language. The [Toi pirates] sailed with about 50 ships [from direction of Goryeo], then assaulted Tsushima and Iki, starting 27 March 1019. After the Iki Island garrison comprising 147 soldiers was wiped out, the pirates proceeded to Hakata Bay. The Jurchen pirates [slaughtered Japanese men] while [seizing Japanese women as prisoners]. Fujiwara Notada, the Japanese governor was killed.[6] For a week, using Noko Island [ja] in the Hakata Bay as a base, they sacked villages and kidnapped over 1000 Japanese, mostly women and young girls, for use as slaves. The Dazaifu, the administrative center of Kyūshū, then raised an army and successfully drove the pirates away.
220830-22:55
    - During the second failed raid on Matsuura on 13 April 1019, three enemies were captured by the Japanese army. They were identified as Koreans. They said that they had guarded the borderland but had been captured by the Toi. However, this was unlikely, and the Japanese officers suspected them because there had been Korean pirates attacking Japan coasts during the Silla period. A few months later, the Goryeo delegate Jeong Jaryang (鄭子良) reported that Goryeo forces attacked the pirates off Weonsan and rescued about 260 Japanese. The Korean government then repatriated them to Japan where they were thanked by the Dazaifu and given rewards. There remain detailed reports by two captive women, Kura no Iwame and Tajihi no Akomi, with Kura no Iwame's report being copied down.[7]
    - The Japanese children and women kidnapped by the Jurchens were mostly likely forced to become prostitutes and slaves. Only 270 or 259 Japanese on 8 ships were returned when Goryeo managed to intercept them. 1280 Japanese were taken prisoner, 374 Japanese were killed and 380 Japanese owned livestock were killed for food.[8]
    - These Jurchen pirates lived in what is today Hamgyŏngdo, North Korea.[9]
    - Traumatic memories of the Jurchen raids on Japan, the Mongol invasions of Japan in addition to Japan viewing the Jurchens as "Tatar" "barbarians" after copying China's barbarian-civilized distinction, may have played a role in Japan's antagonistic views against Manchus and hostility towards them in later centuries such as when the Tokugawa Ieyasu viewed the unification of Manchu tribes as a threat to Japan. The Japanese mistakenly thought that Hokkaido (Ezochi) had a land bridge to Tartary (Orankai) where Manchus lived and thought the Manchus could invade Japan. In 1627, The Tokugawa shogunate sent a message to Joseon via Tsushima offering help to Joseon against the Later Jin invasion of Joseon. Joseon refused it.[10]
    - 刀伊入寇（日语：刀伊の入寇／といのにゅうこう Toi-no-nyūkō）是1019年在辽国[女真族海盗][入侵日本北九州]的事件[1]。“刀伊”（とい）意即东夷，是朝鲜半岛高丽国对高丽北面及东北面[外族人]的蔑称。刀伊入寇是[日本史上第一次]正式[遭外国势力入侵]。
- References
    - [1]: Kodansha Encyclopedia of Japan, Volume 2. Kōdansha. Kodansha. 1983. p. 79. ISBN 978-0-87011-620-9.
    - Embree, Ainslie Thomas (1988). Embree, Ainslie Thomas (ed.). [Encyclopedia of Asian History](https://books.google.com/books?id=TFIYAAAAIAAJ), Volume 1. Robin Jeanne Lewis, Asia Society, Richard W. Bulliet (2, illustrated ed.). Scribner. p. 371. ISBN 0684188988.
    - Adolphson, Mikael S.; Kamens, Edward; Matsumoto, Stacie (2007). Kamens, Edward; Adolphson, Mikael S.; Matsumoto, Stacie (eds.). Heian Japan, Centers and Peripheries. University of Hawaiʻi Press. p. 376. ISBN 9780824830137.
- 来源文献
    - 日本通- [1019年女真族海盗入侵日本北九州事件](http://www.517japan.com/viewnews-54794.html) （[页面存档备份](https://web.archive.org/web/20200728103708/http://www.517japan.com/viewnews-54794.html)，存于[互联网档案馆]）
