- The Eastern Xia[1] (traditional Chinese: 東夏; simplified Chinese: 东夏; pinyin: Dōng Xià), also known as Dongxia[2] or Dongzhen,[3] was [a short-lived kingdom] established in Manchuria (today's [Northeast China]) by Jurchen warlord [[蒲鲜万奴 (Puxian Wannu)]] in 1215 during the [Mongol conquest of the Jin dynasty]. [It was eventually conquered by] the Mongols and was later put under the [[辽阳行省 (Liaoyang province)]] by the Yuan dynasty.
- History
    - Puxian Wannu originally served [the dying Jin dynasty] [under pressure from the Mongol Empire]. While the Mongols under [Genghis Khan] invaded Jin, [a Khitan chief] [[耶律留哥 (Yelü Liuge)]] [revolted against the dynasty] in Liaodong in 1211 and [made contact with] the Mongol Empire [in the next year]. In 1214 Jin [dispatched](((zuN-qI-1i))) Puxian Wannu to Liaodong, but he was defeated around Kaiyuan. While [Mukhali (木华黎)] of the Mongol Empire [invaded Northern China] and [captured the Jin capital Zhongdu], Puxian Wannu [rebelled against Jin] and founded the Eastern Xia kingdom in Dongjing (Liaoyang) in 1215 [with the support of the Mongols]. During that year, as a [[vassal]], he sent his son [Tege (帖哥/鐵哥 Tiěgē)] as a hostage to the Mongols in 1216. He adopted the title of Tianwang (天王 [lit.](((FGBiPd_X7))) __Heavenly King__) and named his era Tiantai (天泰). He also established the [government institutions](((gY6sbAoSS))) [based on the Jin systems]. 
210507-02:28
        - Although originally [acknowledged his allegiance to] the Mongol Empire, 承认他效忠 he however [rebelled against the Mongols] and killed the Mongolian [resident commissioners] 常驻专员 in 1217. He also [moved the capital to] Yanji [in modern Jilin province] and called it Nanjing (南京 literally: "southern capital"). In 1233, [[Güyük]] (then a prince) was dispatched by [Ögedei Khan] to [conquer the Eastern Xia]. Puxian Wannu was [captured and killed] in the same year, which [marked the official end of] the [Eastern Xia kingdom]. The Jin dynasty was also [conquered by the Mongols] [in the next year].
210507-02:40
    - The actual name of the kingdom is controversial. Chinese documents call it Dongxia (东夏/東夏) but Goryeo almost always called it Dongzhen (東眞). Yanai Wataru insisted that Xià (夏) was a misinterpretation of Zhèn (眞). In the meanwhile Ikeuchi Hiroshi claimed that Dongzhen was an abbreviated form of Dong Nüzhen (东女眞/東女眞, Eastern Jurchen) and was just an alias.
