- The Tiele (Chinese: 鐵勒; pinyin: __Tiělè__, Turkic __*Tegreg__ "[People of the] Carts"[2]), also [[transliterated]] as Dili (Chinese: 狄歷), Chile (Chinese: [[敕勒 (Chile)]]), Zhile (Chinese: 直勒), Tele (Chinese: 特勒), also named Gaoche or Gaoju (Chinese: [[高車 (Gaoche)]], "High Carts"),[3][4][5] were a [[tribal confederation]] 部落联盟 of [[Turkic ethnic origin]]s[6] [living to the north of China] and in [Central Asia], emerging after the disintegration of the [[confederacy]] of the [[匈奴 (Xiongnu)]].[7] [Chinese sources] [associate them with] the earlier Dingling (Chinese: [[丁零 (Dingling)]]).[8][9][10]
- ## Chile and Gaoche
    - The name "Chile" and "Gaoche" [first appear in] [Chinese records] during the [[campaign]]s of [[前燕 (Former Yan)]] and Dai in 357 and 363 respectively. However, the [[protagonist]]s were also addressed as "Dingling" [in the records of] the [Southern Dynasties].[11] The name Gaoche ("high cart") was a [[nickname]] given by the Chinese.[12][13]
    - [By the time of] the [[柔然 (Rouran)]] domination, the Gaoche comprised six [tribes (種)]([[tribe]]) [14] and twelve [[clan]]s (姓).[15][16][17]
        The Gaoche are probably remnants of the ancient [Red Di]. Initially they had been called Dili. Northerners take them as Chile. Chinese take them as [Gaoche Dingling]. Their language, in brief, and Xiongnu [language] are the same yet occasionally there are [small differences]. Or one may say that they [Gaoche] are the [junior relatives][18] 下级亲属 of the Xiongnu [in former times].
        The Gaoche migrate in search of [grass and water]. They [dress in skins] and eat meat. Their cattle and sheep are just like those of the Rouran, but [the wheel of their carts]([[cart]]) are high and [have very many spokes].
            - — [[魏书 (Weishu)]], 103
        The [[predecessor]]s of [[回纥 (Huihe)]] were Xiongnu. Because, customarily, they [ride high-wheeled carts]. They were also called Gaoche during the [Yuan Wei] times, or also called Chile, mistakenly rendered as Tiele.
— __Xin Tangshu__, 232
    - One group known as the [[Eastern Gaoche (东部高车)]] probably dwelled from the [[Onon River]] to [[Lake Baikal]] ([[巳尼陂 (Sinipo)]]). However, their relationship with the rest of the Gaoche and its [tribal components] is unclear.[19]
    - In 391 the Rouran chief, [[Heduohan (曷多汗)]] was killed by the [Tuoba Northern Wei]. Heduohan's brother Shelun ([[丘豆伐可汗 (Qiudoufa Khagan)]]) raided several [tribal dependencies] 部落属地 of the Tuoba in [[retaliation]], 作为报复 but reportedly [suffered a serious defeat] in 399, and was forced to [flee westward]. Here Shelun defeated the [[Hulu (斛律)]] tribe and subjugated them. With the aid of a Hulu named [[Chiluohou (叱洛侯)]], Shelun conquered most of the [Gaoche tribes] and proclaimed himself [Kaghan of the Rouran]([[Rouran Kaghan]]) on March 11, 402. Many Gaoche, such as Chiluohou, were promoted to [establish better control].[20][21]
