- Mahan (Korean pronunciation: [ma.ɦan]) was [a loose confederacy of statelets] that existed from around the 1st century BC to 5th century AD [in the southern Korean peninsula] in the Chungcheong and Jeolla provinces.[1] [Arising out of the confluence of] [Gojoseon migration] and [the Jin state federation], Mahan was one of the [[三韩 (Samhan)]] ("Three Hans"), along with Byeonhan and Jinhan. [[百济 (Baekje)]] began as a [member statelet], but [later overtook all of] Mahan and became one of [the Three Kingdoms of Korea].[1]
220823-05:05
    - Mahan probably [developed from the existing] [bronze society] of third to second centuries BC, [continuing to absorb migration from the north] [in subsequent centuries]. King Jun of the kingdom of Gija Joseon in northern Korea, having lost the throne to Wiman, fled to the state of Jin in southern Korea around 194 - 180 BC.[1] He and his followers are thought to have established a base within Jin territory. It is not certain whether Mahan conquered or arose out of this entity, but Mahan was certainly influenced by this influx of northern culture.
    - Further migration followed the fall of Wiman Joseon and establishment of the Chinese commanderies in the Korean Peninsula[2][3][4][5][6] region in 108 BC. It is described in the Chinese chronicle San Guo Zhi and the much later Korean chronicles Samguk Yusa and Samguk Sagi.
    - In the 1st century AD, the Wolji/Mokji (月支/目支) state, that formed and led Mahan confederacy, was defeated in struggles with Baekje, another member of Mahan, and consequently losing whole region of present-day Han River basin. But the San Guo Zhi recorded the Han state fallen in struggles with the Lelang Commandery and Daifang Commandery in the 246.[7][8][9] Under continuous pressure from Baekje, only 20 statelets of Mahan confederacy survived until the late 3rd century. Baekje eventually absorbed or conquered all of Mahan by the 5th century,[10] growing into one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea, along with Silla and Goguryeo.
